---
layout: post
title: "Sheet Sandwich"
date: 2002-09-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 116
tags: [personal]
---
Our room was hot and stuffy last night. So while I was laying in bed, I
kicked one leg out of the blankets - sort of a way to regulate my
temperature. Shortly after, Jenn decided she needed to pull up the
sheet. God only knows why, since that would just make you HOT, but she
needed the sheet. I, of course, had them pinched between my legs. The
ensuing conversation went something like this:

 "Trav, what's the sheet stuck on?"

 "My legs."

 "Huh?"

 "My legs. I have one leg in and one leg out."

 "Oh, so you have, like, a sheet sandwich."

 "I guess so."

 "And your legs are the bread."

 At this point I started laughing *way* too hard for my own good. For
some reason, the Sheet Sandwich was as funny as [Turd
Ferguson](/archive/2002/08/27/turd-ferguson.aspx). Besides which, it
sort of sounds like "[shit
sandwich](http://www.capnasty.org/issues/5/2/37/)," a phrase Jenn had
apparently never heard before. Anyway, it was funny.

 Speaking of Turd Ferguson, I'm thinking of throwing together some Turd
Ferguson t-shirts. Anyone interested in buying?

 Now that all the Turd talk is out of the way, let me get to the latest
thoughts and maybe even the weekend... Prepare for the non sequiturs of
a lifetime.

 I'm on the [Frederick's of Hollywood](http://www.fredericks.com)
mailing list. What self respecting, heterosexual guy *isn't*, right?
Anyway, I've decided I need a chick who shops almost exclusively at
Frederick's. Don't even give me this crap about how you think it's
trashy or whatever - *a little 'trashy' never hurt anyone*. I mean,
where else can you get a [corset top like
this](http://www.fredericks.com/shopItemDetail.asp?deptID=1&classID=134&itemID=73964)?
(Yes, I'm a [corset
lover](http://www.fredericks.com/shopItemDetail.asp?deptID=7&classID=&itemID=50640),
so sue me.) I keep trying to convince Jenn, but no dice. *Grrrrr...*

 This weekend, as the US readers are aware, was Labor Day weekend. Which
basically means three days off instead of the standard two. What did I
do?

 Pretty much nothing, and it was *[all I thought it could
be](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305508550/mhsvortex)*.

 Friday night - nothing. Saturday we went to dinner for Jenn's grandpa's
birthday. At least I think it was Saturday; I really don't remember if
it was Saturday or Sunday. I think it was Saturday. Anyway, that was
that. I had some shrimp, which were pretty good, and Jenn had a ham and
cheese omelette. Sunday we rented [*Birthday
Girl*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000067J3P/mhsvortex),
[*The Sweetest Thing*
(Unrated)](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000069HYG/mhsvortex),
and
[*Showtime*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000069I1H/mhsvortex).

 *Birthday Girl* was decent, but I guess I went into it thinking it was
a spy movie of some nature, so I was disappointed when it wasn't. I
*did* figure out while watching, though, that if you could get women
like [Nicole Kidman](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Kidman,+Nicole) off of
Russian mail-order bride services, those things would be a lot more
popular.

 *The Sweetest Thing* was iffy. I think Jenn liked it more than I did.
It felt to me like they tried to get the raunchy *American Pie* style
humor but tried too hard and, thus, failed. The plot itself was pretty
weak, and the dialogue was passable at best. Eh.

 *Showtime* was funny if formulaic. I'm glad we rented it, but I'm also
glad we didn't pay full price for it in the theater.

 Monday we didn't really do anything. My mom had given me a disposable
camera with some black and white film in it, so we ran around taking
pictures of stuff, sort of like Dustin Hoffman in [*Rain
Man*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0792833260/mhsvortex). Most
of them actually turned out pretty well, including [this picture of my
baby Xev
cat]({{ site.url }}/images/20020904xevbw.jpg).
I think I like black and white film better because it gives things sort
of an old, mysterious look.

 The whole reason we did that, I think, is actually because we were
watching *Rain Man* the night before on TV.

 During the show, I saw a commercial that [Time
Life](http://www.timelife.com) is offering old episodes of *The Muppet
Show* on DVD now. [Amazon has a
couple](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006AUHU/mhsvortex),
too, but you get a better deal if you buy the whole set from Time Life
all at once. I want them.

 For those who watch it, [*Red Dwarf*](http://www.reddwarf.co.uk) looks
like it will be coming out with DVDs in November of this year. I'll be
picking those up, too, when they emerge.

 At work, I'm discovering quickly that [Microsoft
Exchange](http://www.microsoft.com/exchange) workflow is a bitch to set
up and really isn't worth the effort. I can see now why companies make
add-on tools and helper apps to assist in the setup of this beast.

 There are lots of PS2 games I'm looking forward to, including [*Hitman
2*](http://gamespot.com/gamespot/filters/products/0,11114,539985,00.html),
[*Auto
Modellista*](http://gamespot.com/gamespot/filters/products/0,11114,547928,00.html),
and [*The
Getaway*](http://gamespot.com/gamespot/filters/products/0,11114,914419,00.html).
But none come close to [*Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City*](http://www.rockstargames.com/vicecity). I'm *so stoked* for it, I
can't even explain.

 Oh, I saw [yesterday's Dilbert
comic](http://www.dilbert.com/comics/dilbert/archive/dilbert-20020903.html)
and it was so *me* I had to print it out and tape it to my cube. Maybe
people will get the hint.
