---
layout: post
title: "Facelets"
date: 2002-10-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 137
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Weird dream Monday night: I was at a [Tori
Amos](http://www.toriamos.com/) concert where the audience seemed to be
only about 30 people. Tori made several costume changes during the show,
though I can only remember that one was an old-school cheerleader and
one was the Queen of Hearts (though it looked closer to something out of
[Cirque du Soleil](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/)). After the show, she
came out into the audience (where I seemed to be the only person) and
said, "*He's not dying on a deathbed, he's **living** on a deathbed,
making facelets for the stars.*" Then she handed me a concert program -
it was the *Who Makes Facelets Anymore?* Tour - and walked away.
 
 That's when I woke up.
 
 I don't know what a *facelet* is. I have this weird image of my mind of
a charm bracelet that has a bunch of [Lego](http://www.lego.com) people
heads on it with various expressions on their faces. Maybe that's what
it is. I wonder if I made something like that, if people would buy them.
Like, on [eBay](http://www.ebay.com) or something. I wonder if Lego
sells just the heads of the people.
 
 Now that *weird time* is over...
 
 [Last time I wrote](/archive/2002/10/07/a-forty-inch-weekend.aspx), I
had [the entertainment
center](http://www.sauder.com/productpage.asp?ProdNumber=8849-103&From=Entertainment&Sub=Home%5FTheaters)
built and [the
TV](http://www.sonystyle.com/home/item.jsp?hierc=9685x9800x9801&catid=9801&itemid=36589&type=o)
was going to be delivered Monday afternoon.
 
 Since then: The TV did, in fact, get delivered on Monday afternoon. I
didn't see it on the web page before, but the TV itself weighs 304
pounds and the stand weighs 69 pounds. That's 373 pounds (169.2 kg for
you metric folks) of TV. Damn, anyway. Luckily, the stand is smooth on
the bottom, so I can sort of slide it around on the carpet with a lot of
effort.
 
 I got the stereo components all put into the new entertainment center
cabinet and all the wires have been run between all the various
components and the television. That only took about five hours. I tried
to do a reasonable job of cable management, but in the end, there are so
many cables and I got pissed off enough that I just sort of let the
extra cable do its own thing. I zip-tied stuff as best I could, but
there's just too much to fight. Like one guy against the Huns. Much
profanity was to be had, and my knees really hurt now from sitting on
them while running cables. That all happened Monday night.
 
 Last night, after helping my dad hook up his [new
printer](http://products.hp-at-home.com/products/detail.php?high_level_category_id=2&category_id=4&sub_category_id=1815c9dd7908caf733e7ddf85c42b84b&prodnum=C8426A),
I went home and cleaned up the majority of the mess left behind by the
technology transition. I still haven't read the gigantic user manual
that came with my TV and I really need to do that. There are features on
there that I want to use that I don't know how to, and there are some
features I don't even know what they do. Maybe tonight. There are still
some big boxes that need to go out to the recycle bin, too.
 
 And there wasn't enough room in the living room to leave out the
rocking chair we have, so I disassembled it so it can go in a closet.
Now if only we had room to put it in a closet...
 
 Come hell or high water, I'm going to play something on the PS2
tonight. I mean, that's a significant portion of why I bought the damn
TV anyway.
 
 Speaking of PS2 and cool games, I pre-ordered the [*Grand Theft Auto:
Vice City*](http://www.rockstargames.com/vicecity/) soundtrack [box
set](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006SM6Q/mhsvortex)
yesterday. Amazon doesn't have much info about it, so for info check out
the [Vice City Radio](http://www.vicecityradio.com/) site, but if you're
going to buy it, why not [buy it through
me](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006SM6Q/mhsvortex)? :)
It's a seven-disc box set. Each disc has all of the music from one of
the *GTA: VC* radio stations. You can buy each disc separately, but hey,
I'm down with all of 'em. I'm always down with the 80's tunes.
