---
layout: post
title: "Another Memorial Day Weekend"
date: 2002-05-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 65
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Thus ends another three-day holiday weekend that went by all too
quickly. A heck of a lot happened, though looking back at it, it doesn't
seem like I really *accomplished* anything. Hmmm.
 
 My sister, Tori, is back from her mission in Thailand. She brought with
her some cool native clothing - beautiful custom suits she got for like
\$30US. She also had the usual stories of shady marketplace dealings...
where you choose what you want from a catalog, the vendor calls someone
on a cell phone, and a few minutes later a taxi mysteriously drives up
and drops off your "order." Or, looking at pets, someone will come over
and show you that they have a very tiny monkey hidden in their fanny
pack and if you want it, they'll sell it to you *and* tell you how to
smuggle it into the US. Pretty unbelieveable.
 
 I saw *[Star Wars - Episode II](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0121765)*
again this weekend since Jenn hadn't seen it. I thought it was still
pretty decent the second time around, but Jenn wasn't too impressed.
She's not a big sci-fi fan, either, though, so take it with a grain of
salt. I *was* stoked to see the trailer for the [new James Bond
movie](http://www.jamesbond.com/bond20/index.html), though, and I look
forward to that. Love the Bond.
 
 Sunday was quite the ordeal. Went to church with my parents at 1:00p so
I could hear Tori speak (she's become quite a good speaker, too... I was
very impressed). By 3:00p I was at a "barbecue" at Jenn's cousin's
house, though there wasn't any [fresh] food, so I didn't actually get to
eat lunch until 4:00p when I went to
[Burgerville](http://www.burgerville.com/). Much as I love Jenn, the
all-too-frequent family gatherings are a little much for me. I'm not a
big-crowd-people-person. Anyway, by 5:00p Jenn and I were back at my
parents' house for Tori's "welcome back" open house. I think three
people showed up by 7:00p, so we left. Rented *[American
Beauty](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CWL6/mhsvortex)*
since Jenn hadn't seen it (and, might I add, [Mena
Suvari](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Suvari,+Mena)'s hot), then went to bed.
 
 Monday was errand day. Did the laundry, yadda, yadda, yadda. Rented
*[Vanilla
Sky](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JKMZ/mhsvortex)*
and... not sure what to say about that one. I suppose I didn't guess the
ending, but it played out so confusing that it was hard to stay focused
and watch the movie. You have to see it to understand it. (I can't
figure out why [Tom Cruise](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Cruise,+Tom) would
take [Penelope Cruz](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Cruz,+Pen%E9lope) over the
*way* hotter and classier [Nicole
Kidman](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Kidman,+Nicole), but that's another
discussion entirely.)
 
 That's about it. Woke up this morning way too exhausted and haven't
really been able to concentrate on work all day. I've got stuff to do, I
just don't wanna do it.
 
 Oh, I saw the latest *[InStyle](http://www.instyle.com)* has my girl,
Sarah Michelle Gellar, on the cover. She's pretty great, but she's
ruining her career with movies like *[Simply
Irresistable](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305508542/mhsvortex)*
and *[Scooby Doo](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0267913)*. If she could pick
a decent role, I think she could make something out of herself. Then
again, she *is* dating [Freddie Prinze,
Jr.](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Prinze+Jr.,+Freddie), so I can't say much
for her taste in guys, either.
