---
layout: post
title: "Speech Patterns"
date: 2002-08-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 108
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I was watching [*Jay and Silent Bob Strike
Back*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CY67/mhsvortex) last
night and started to realize that movies totally shape the way I speak.
I'm not sure if I actively try to change to speak like movies, or if I
just sort of pick up on little phrases, but I know that there are
phrases and patterns I pick up from watching these things. Now that I
think about it, it's usually more phrases than anything. For example, if
someone has a collection of items and asks me which one's mine, I'm hard
pressed not to answer, ["Mine's the one that says 'bad mother fucker' on
it."](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000068DBC/mhsvortex)
Describing a chaotic scene? ["Dogs and cats *living
together*..."](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000060K4O/mhsvortex)
 
 I'm not sure I can control it. Maybe I don't even want to. I guess I
assume it makes me a more interesting person to talk to (especially if
you know which movie I'm referencing) but maybe it just makes me
annoying.
 
 The new season of [*Alias*](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/primetime/alias/)
starts on September 29. I'm *so* looking forward to it. Honestly, more
than any other show I watch, I'm waiting for *Alias*. Those bastards
know how to keep you on the edge of your seat. Plus, [Jennifer
Garner](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Garner,+Jennifer). Yow.
 
 And they have [*Alias* trading
cards](http://www.inkworkscards.com/products/alias/alias1/alias1newprod.html)
coming out. Gotta be gettin' these.
 
 Oh! Jenn and I saw [*Signs*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0286106) this
weekend. I thought it was pretty good. I can't say it's my favorite [M.
Night Shyamalan](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Shyamalan,+M.+Night) movie, but
it was good. If aliens really *were* to invade, I think it would happen
a lot like that, rather than the more commercial-yet-action-oriented
[*Independence
Day*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005V9IK/mhsvortex). I'd
recommend seeing it, but don't look for the traditional M. Night
twist-at-the-end. It was just a straight-up, good film. I don't know
that I'll be getting it on DVD, though. It was good, but I'm not sure
that I'd watch it over and over. Give it a run, see what you think.
 
 Watching my [Buffy Season 2
DVDs](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000063IOT/mhsvortex) this
weekend I noticed that on disc 2, title 3 ("Lie To Me"), starting at
chapter 5, 1:52 into it until chapter 6, 0:16 into it, the disc won't
play. I'm not sure why. It isn't dirty or scratched. I tried it in my
PS2 and the same problem occurred. So it's not the player, it's
something wrong with the disc.
 
 I went to [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) to exchange it, but
after finding that they didn't have it and then calling several other
locations, I am going to have to wait until Tuesday when they get a new
shipment in. I even tried the Freddy's by work, but no luck.
 
 I did, however, exercise my distinct lack of self control and purchased
a Mucha print ([*Bi√®res de la
Meuse*](http://www.allposters.com/gallery.asp?aid=273632&item=290944))
that I've been wanting for a month or so now. Couldn't stand it any
longer. I don't think we have any room for it at home, but we'll see. If
not, it'll go up at work. [Love the
Mucha](http://www.allposters.com/gallery.asp?aid=273632&search=alphonse+mucha).
 
 I also bought a ratcheting screwdriver with a set of bits because we
have tools around work but... no one can ever find them. It cost me all
of \$6 for the thing, so I can't really complain. Now I'll have my *own*
screwdriver, so I'll always know where it is.
 
 No, you can't borrow it. It's *mine*.
