---
layout: post
title: "No Hat Luck"
date: 2002-09-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 133
tags: [costumes]
---
While listening to an [online seminar](http://www.interwise.com) about
.NET application deployment and sipping water from my [*Fuck
Off*](https://store.theonion.com/cgi-bin/store/EDCstore.pl?user_action=detail&catalogno=ONION:ON6000MUG1)
mug, I was doing a little searching for Mad Hatter hats.

 Now, I'm particular about exactly what color, etc., a Mad Hatter hat
should be if it wants to rest atop my hallowed head. It must be *green*
with a *dark green band*. It must look *absolutely identical* to the Mad
Hatter's hat in the [Walt Disney version of *Alice in
Wonderland*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00004R99L/mhsvortex).
Not "American McGee's" *Alice*. Not some psychedelic wannabe Alice.
**Walt Disney's version of *Alice in Wonderland*.** Accept no
substitutes.

 I can't find any that fit the description.

 I know I saw them when I was at Disneyland umpteen years ago. They were
there, and they were perfect. I just can't find them now.

 I found many, many sites selling these psychedelic pot smoker druggie
hats that are generally *shaped* like the Mad Hatter's hat, but none of
them actually *is* the One True Hat.

 I did see [one on auction at
eBay](http://cgi.ebay.com/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=718847872), but
it's already sold and I don't even know if it'd fit me.

 I looked for a pattern online (could the [McCall's
site](http://www.mccall.com/) be *any slower*?), but no luck.

 I did find [this
costume](http://www.badplanet.com/asp/items.asp?I=5375&R=) from
[BadPlanet.com](http://www.badplanet.com) that is under the "Officially
Licensed Disney" section, but... "one size fits most" sort of rules it
out for tall, long-armed folks. $49 isn't a bad price, though. (They
also have an [Alice
costume](http://www.badplanet.com/asp/items.asp?I=5373&R=), by the way.
Did I not tell you Alice is a hottie?) I'm not big on the satin thing,
but it's an option. (BadPlanet also has a "spicy women" section in their
"Adult Costumes" category. Well worth a look.)

 What that amounts to is that it may be easier (and cheaper) to go ninja
than it will be to go Mad Hatter for Halloween. Somewhat disappointing,
but not surprising.

 Something I forgot to mention earlier: The
[*Alias*](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/primetime/alias/index.html) premiere
was last night and it *rocked*. I can only hope they keep up the good
work.

 Plus, it doesn't hurt that [Jennifer
Garner](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/primetime/alias/profiles/actor_garner.html)
is hot.

