---
layout: post
title: "Soy Un Perdedor"
date: 2002-04-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 36
tags: [General Ramblings,Traffic]
---
The [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) lost last night to stupid
Seattle. I can't say I didn't expect it, but I sort of did. Our guys are
good, and they did get some crappy circumstances thrown at them that
probably put them out of whack, but I think if they had really gone for
it (and if Lanny hadn't let the stupid puck get in the net), they could
have beaten those Seattle bastards.
 
 In the end, it's all going to be okay, though, since Seattle's going to
get their asses *wasted* by Kootenay (just like the Hawks were going to)
anyway. This just means I have a bigger deposit on my season tickets for
next year.
 
 To Jerry, Deona, Suze, Tim, Barb, Keith, Greg (hope you're not on swing
shift), and Brandon (aka Miss Cleo), Jenn and I will see you all in
September. I hope you have the same seats, 'cuz we will.
 
 A couple of follow-ups to yesterday's [Public Safety
Announcement](/archive/2002/04/02/a-public-safety-announcement.aspx) on
how to merge:
 
 First, from the comments, it looks like the damn Californians are
coming out to defend themselves. I have mixed feelings on that. On one
hand, I'm stoked that I've got comments because it means more than just
Jenn reads this thing. On the other hand, I think the Californians had
better think things through before attempting to defend themselves. The
quote from the comments I'm talking about says, "Until the Californians
showed up no one in Oregon drived like that." No shit, man. Things were
great until the Californians invaded. Of course, I'm sure things would
have eventually degraded to what they are today, but we've all got to
admit - the rapid advance of the Californian Driver had sped up the
process.
 
 Second, a bit of an addition to the Public Safety Announcement: If you
*don't* have a STOP sign (or other traffic signal indicating you need to
stop) and the people waiting to turn onto the street you're on *do* have
a STOP sign, that means that *they have to stop for you*, not the other
way around. What this implies is that rush hour is not the time to
decide that you need to "take turns" letting folks at the STOP sign into
the road. All this does is fuck things up. The traffic signals were
designed the way they are for a reason - let them do their job, and get
about doing yours: driving.
 
 Before y'all get on me: I'm not defending the [city
planners](http://www.planning.ci.portland.or.us/). Whoever took on the
job of designing Hillsboro obviously needs to be unemployed right now -
making every light function via sensors and not timing creates more
traffic issues over there than I can comprehend... and the intersection
at 185th and Evergreen Parkway is the worst *ever*.
 
 I'm just saying that folks need to *drive*, in a decent defensive
manner, and be a lot less concerned with being "nice." You worry about
you and your immediate surroundings. Let the guy in the car at the stop
sign deal with getting on the road.
 
 On an entirely different note... I haven't played GTA3 for a couple of
days now and I miss it terribly. I may have to dedicate a little time to
it tonight. Sorry, Jenn.
