---
layout: post
title: "Review: Spider-Man"
date: 2002-05-06 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 54
tags: [movies,comics]
---
*[Spider-Man](http://www.spiderman.sonypictures.com/)* has to be the
best superhero/comic-based movie since the [original
*Superman*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000059Z8J/mhsvortex).
 
 I went in on Saturday with high expectations. The previews for this
thing hype it up to the point where I'm scared to even venture into the
theater. I've been so severely let down by movies like *[Jurassic
Park](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXAT/mhsvortex)*
after seeing the commercialism surrounding them that movies with too
much promotion are movies I usually won't see. In 99% of cases, there's
no way a movie can live up to the expectations the promotion builds.
 
 ***Spider-Man* lives up to every last bit of the hype**.
 
 *Spider-Man* is (duh) the story of Spider-Man. If you don't know who
Spider-Man is, climb out from under the rock you call home and join us
in the *now*. [Tobey Maguire](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Maguire,+Tobey)
plays Peter Parker (aka Spider-Man) and does a great job of giving us
the "mild-mannered" treatment. You get to see his struggles through high
school and understand what his state in life is. [Kirsten
Dunst](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Dunst,+Kirsten) plays Mary Jane Watson,
the girl Peter desperately wants to date. [Willem
Dafoe](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Dafoe,+Willem) plays Norman Osborn, aka
The Green Goblin, the bad guy in the film.
 
 Peter is a nerdy photographer in high-school who likes Mary Jane. He's
lived next door to her for years, but she somehow doesn't know who he
is. Mary Jane dates the popular kids, which is not what Peter is. On a
field trip, Peter gets bitten by a genetically enhanced spider (which is
slightly different than the radioactive spider that was seen in the
comic) and gets spider powers. He climbs walls, he shoots webs, etc.,
etc. But the cool part of this is that you actually get to see him
*figure out how to use his powers*. He just doesn't instantly understand
them - he plays around a bit with them and messes up a few times getting
the hang of them.
 
 Peter has a friend, Harry Osborn, whose dad, Norman is some sort of
scientist developing products for the Army. Norman's about to lose his
funding, so he tries out one of the products on himself and *\*whammo\**
turns into a crazed lunatic with super strength.
 
 Norman (as The Green Goblin) tries to kill the people who are taking
away his funding; Spider-Man comes in to save the day. Sounds simple
enough, right?
 
 *It is. Just that simple.* And that's the brilliance of it. The story
is pretty basic, but you actually care about the characters. There was
no point while watching this that I said, "What the hell is that guy
thinking? This is stupid!" I left thinking "I want to be Peter Parker."
Sort of the same way I left *[The
Matrix](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000K19E/mhsvortex)*
thinking "I want to be Neo." You start to see what Peter sees in Mary
Jane. You understand Peter's struggles. And you almost wish you could
help.
 
 I went in wearing my brand-new [Spider-Man baseball
jersey](http://www.marzdistribution.com/insideMarz/moreinfo.cfm?ID=CHANGES-21-847-371),
eating my Spider-Man sour gummy spiders, having just purchased a
[Spider-Man dual-action web
blaster](http://www.marvel.com/toybiz/spidermovie/xtras/movie_43735.pdf),
and I loved every single minute of the movie. I want to go back and see
it again, and I'll definitely be picking it up on DVD.
 
 And, hey, you get some Kirsten Dunst nip while you're there. *Could it
get any better? I think not.*
 
 Go out and see *Spider-Man*. It's well worth it.
