---
layout: post
title: "The Angel of Music"
date: 2002-07-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 93
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Jenn and I saw [*Phantom of the
Opera*](http://www.thephantomoftheopera.com/) last night and it was
*wonderful*. Honestly, it was all I hoped it would be. The costumes were
perfect, the sets were perfect, everything was great. Only two things I
think were issues...
 
 First, the way I imagined it was slightly different than how it played
out on stage. Yeah, not an issue really, but sort of an interesting
turn. *Most* of it was right, mainly just the end was different than how
I expected it. Second, the lady who played Christine was just a tad
sharp on everything she sang in the first half of the show. I was okay
with it and decided to ignore it, but leave it to my mom to break me
from my Suspension of Disbelief and *remind me repeatedly* about how
sharp she was.
 
 Overall, though, *brilliance*. I'd definitely see it again if it comes
back. I'm starting to think about getting a Portland Opera subscription
because there are lots of other shows I want to see as well. It's
expensive, though. I dunno.
 
 Speaking of expensive, we ate dinner at this place downtown called
"[Veritable Quandary](http://www.savvydiner.com/details.php?r=662)." It
was sort of... well, "preppy," in a [Pottery
Barn](http://www.potterybarn.com/) sense. People wearing black shirts
and tortoise-shell glasses. Waaaay too many wines on the wine list and
even more people that thought they could actually tell the difference
between them all. Very good food - Jenn and I both had the "Black Angus
NY steak" - but slightly on the spendy side. It's actually got a
restaurant and a bar; the restaurant is in the back, the bar's up front.
The bar sounded like it had some tasty normal-people food, so we may
have to go back and check that out.
 
 I pulled a nice, *cold* drink out of my new birthday refrigerator this
morning and it's just right. It took about 24 hours for the fridge to
get up to full speed, but now it's ready to chill.
 
 My boss/friend, Greg, just came over and told me he's going to the
coast for the day, taking some friends from New Mexico who haven't been
to the Oregon Coast yet.
 
 I have a problem with the Oregon Coast - that it's a *coast* and not a
*beach*. What's the difference? If you go to the beach, you expect
sand-colored sand, nice blue water you can wade in, sun... you see where
I'm going with this. Hawaii has beaches. California and Florida have
beaches.
 
 Oregon has a *coast*. You can't wade, really, because if you spend too
long in the water you're going to get frostbite. You can't sit on the
sand for too long because the wind will sandblast your face and any
other exposed body parts. You can't wear glasses because it's always
misty there (and you know about the [magnetic properties of water and
glasses](/archive/2002/07/15/new-science-magnetic-rain.aspx)). The sand
is a dingy brown-gray. The water is... dingy brown-gray.
 
 I *love* beaches. I *hate* the Oregon Coast.
 
 Man, I sure go off on little rants at the drop of a hat, don't I? Here,
I was expecting to write a nice review of my *Phantom* show, and then I
get sidetracked by my hatred for the Oregon Coast. Welcome to my world.
Now do you see how I could [go out without combing my
hair](/archive/2002/07/16/bad-hair-day.aspx)?
