---
layout: post
title: "Pathetic"
date: 2002-08-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 107
tags: [personal]
---
Jenn and I went out to dinner last night with Jenn's friend Derek.
During the conversation that ensued, I realized my life is pretty
pathetic. It went something like this:

>
>  **Jenn**: Man, tomorrow's Friday. Do we have any plans?
>
>  **Travis**: Not really. It'll be nice to rest, though. I don't feel
> like I get enough rest.
>
>  **Derek**: I know what you mean. What do you think you'll want to
> do?
>
>  **Travis**: I dunno. Probably sit on my ass.
>
>  **Derek**: I love sitting on my ass.
>
>  **Travis**: Exactly. But... you know, I sit on my ass all day long,
> too.
>
>  **Derek**: Right. A hard day of sitting on my ass prompts me to hurry
> home...
>
>  **Jenn**: ...so you can sit on your ass some more.
>
>  **Travis**: Wow. You know, I never realized it, but I'm really
> pathetic.


 And it's true. I sit *all day long*. Why do I feel so tired when I get
home? I suppose you could chalk it up to stress and mental exercise, but
you come tell that to this donut-like non-ab that I have surrounding my
waist.

 I borrowed my dad's [Ab
Slide](http://www.wonderfulbuys.com/sports_and_fitness/abslide.html)
specifically for this reason - I need to remove the non-ab that has
fastened itself to my frontal region. I've been using it fairly
regularly (which is more than Dad could say), but I still have quite the
lack of any muscle definition going on.

 See, I have a problem with exercise: ***IT'S BORING.***

 Not just a little boring, *a lot* boring. Boring like watching the
movie
*[Gandhi](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXA4/mhsvortex)*.
Plus I have flat feet and reasonably bad allergies, all of which point
to not being able to really do much outside. I like swimming, but
there's no pool very close and I refuse to pay monthly to join a gym for
such things.

 Basically, I've come up with very few methods of physical activity that
provide any feelings of positivity within me. I like swimming, bowling,
roller skating, and riding bikes. That's about it. So... Ab Slide.

 Maybe liposuction.

 I really wish those stupid electronic muscle stimulation machines
worked. I'm so lazy.
