---
layout: post
title: "Frugality"
date: 2002-09-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 126
tags: [tv,media]
---
I continue to research large screen televisions. The biggest problem I
was having for a while there is that, frankly, I'm a cheapskate. If I
don't *need* it and it costs over, say, \$20, I probably won't buy it.
So when I started getting jazzed about the [possibility of a plasma
screen](/archive/2002/09/16/warm-thrill-of-confusion.aspx), that
excitement carried over into the big screen TVs. We really don't *need*
a new TV, but we've been looking at them for a while, so I've moved over
to the "gonna buy a TV" realm, especially after having seen the Sony
KV-40XBR700 (last year's version of the TV I'm looking at, the
[KV-40XBR800](http://www.sonystyle.com/home/item.jsp?itemid=50911&hierc=9685x9800x9801&catid=)).

 Now my big issue is: Where do I put it?

 My current entertainment center isn't remotely big enough to hold the
TV, but it holds the rest of the components well. The TV comes with a
stand, but the stand it comes with isn't big enough to hold the
components. So I'm going to have to deal with the sales guy and see if
he'll throw in a larger stand.

 I was talking about this with my friend Mike at work this morning and
he was all, "You're one of those people who gets buyer's remorse after
making large purchases, aren't you?" Yes, I am. Unless I research it and
I'm sure that I'm getting exactly what I want for the price I'm willing
to pay. I'm working on doing that research and whatnot so when the sets
come in to the shop, I'll be ready.

 In the meantime, I'm actually losing a little sleep over how I'm going
to make the TV stand thing work. Which, in the scale of things, is the
small stuff. I know you're not supposed to sweat the small stuff, but I
do. I think it's hereditary; my parents sweat the small stuff, too.

 The thing that keeps me on track with this thing, come hell or high
water, is the thought that on October 22 I should be receiving a package
in the mail containing [*Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000696CZ/mhsvortex), and
that bad boy needs to be on a better television than what I have right
now. Plus the fact that we watch a lot of movies, and a nicer set is
definitely called for.

 So.

 Aside from that, not much going on. [*Survivor:
Thailand*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/) starts Thursday, and
while I'm not the hugest *Survivor* fan out there, Jenn and I have a
good time going over and watching it with my parents. My dad gets really
into it. We'll be going over there Thursday to hang with them and play
the *Survivor* board game, which I got for my birthday but haven't yet
had a chance to play. Then we'll watch the show, followed closely by
[*CSI*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/csi/).

 Hey, we're saving money, right? Watching TV at my parents' house is
*free*. Chalk one up for Frugal Trav.
