---
layout: post
title: "Mr. Clean"
date: 2002-06-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 79
tags: [home]
---
Well, I think we've *finally* gotten somewhere in the cleaning effort.
Here's the log for the day; hopefully I won't have to add anything to
it:

 **Wednesday, June 26, 2002**
 *8:45a* - Kitty from [Horizon
Restoration](http://www.horizonrestoration.com) showed up at my
apartment for the meeting between her, myself, and Doug from Crawford
and Company ([All-Ways Warm](http://www.allwayswarm.com)'s claims
adjuster). She brought out this funky rubber sponge thing and showed me
a demonstration - the difference between regular dust and this soot-dust
stuff. She rubbed my bedroom wall with the sponge - it came up sort of a
light grey. She then rubbed the wall in the living room with the sponge

- pure black. Unreal.

 *9:00a* - Doug called. He was a little lost since he's not familiar
with Portland. I tried to talk him through directions, but I'm not very
good at directions. I recommended he call the apartment office.

 *9:30a* - Doug arrived. He got the demonstration from Kitty and agreed
we were dealing with something other than ordinary household dust. I
couldn't show him how dirty the cat is because she was hiding under the
couch. Doug took some pictures (of what, I don't know; you really can't
*see* anything) and measured the rooms.

 *10:00a* - Called Joe from the [apartment management
company](http://www.hscrealestate.com/) looking for a final approval to
get Horizon in and going. Joe wasn't there, so I left a message.

 *11:10a* - Joe called me at work. **Cleaning starts tomorrow morning at
9:00a!** I'm stoked. Horizon's gotten the approval and everything's set
to go. Yay!

 *12:05p* - Kitty from Horizon called. She'll be visiting my apartment
later today with the electronics cleaning guy and the ceiling cleaning
guy (actually, it has to be "encapsulated" since the ceiling has
asbestos in it). She'll leave a lock-box on our door and leave us the
combination to it so we can put a key in there for them to get in and
out tomorrow.

 So tonight Jenn and I have to make as much room as possible in the two
bedrooms (which are already jammed full) so they can move stuff once
it's clean into the bedrooms. Whatever. I'm stoked things are finally
moving.
