---
layout: post
title: "Review: Star Wars: Episode II - Attack of the Clones"
date: 2002-05-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 64
tags: [movies]
---
Well.

 Let me begin by saying I thought this [latest installment of Star
Wars](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0121765) was (pardon the bad space humor)
*light years* better than [Episode
I](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CX5P/mhsvortex). Episode
I was not one of those movies where I could plant my butt on the sofa
one Sunday afternoon and just feel the need to watch it. It takes a
mood. Episode I was not a "stand-alone" movie - if you hadn't seen any
other Star Wars movie, it would probably not make a lot of sense because
it requires the context of the original trilogy.

 Episode II, on the other hand, stood alone pretty well. While it helped
a lot to know where things were going a la the original trilogy, if you
just sat down and watched it, you wouldn't be disappointed. There was
good action, good special effects, and a pretty decent story.

 Now, all of that said, Episode II in no way compared to any of the
original three; even *[Return of the
Jedi](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6304539274/mhsvortex)*,
which I felt was probably the weakest of the bunch, would show up on my
list before this one. And here's why:

 In the original three, sure, there was a political battle going on and
that's the whole reason everyone was fighting against the Death Star and
all that jazz. But the politics, for the most part, were secondary to
the overall general "good-versus-evil" story. A very simple plot, good
characters, good script, and everything falls neatly into place. With
these recent installments, Lucas seems to be focusing heavily on the
politics of things. There's a lot of discussion about/around/in the
Senate, and while that's interesting for a while, I guess when I come
into a Star Wars movie, I wanna see the equivalent of a space-age
Western movie, which is exactly what the original three were. These
latest seem more like.. like the extended version of
*[Dune](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0783226063/mhsvortex)*. I
liked *Dune*, but I liked it for what it was - I went in expecting
politics, and that's what it was about. Star Wars, that's not what I
expect, but that's what I'm getting.

 It doesn't help things that, in general, the dialogue was pretty bad
and [Hayden Christiansen](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Christensen,+Hayden)
as Anakin was the most wooden acting I've seen since
*[Pinocchio](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00001QEE9/mhsvortex)*.
I don't know if that's the script's fault, the director's fault, or
Christiansen's, but I blame
[Lucas](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Lucas,+George) (seeing as how he's
writer and director).

 That was the bad stuff.

 The good stuff: [Natalie
Portman](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Portman,+Natalie), always a pleasure to
watch onscreen, finally starts taking on a Leia-like presence. We start
to see the relationship development between Amidala and Anakin, which is
cool. We get to see Anakin getting arrogant and impatient, getting his
hate on and taking on his Darth Vader airs. We get to see how Boba Fett
came about, which I thought was very cool. [Samuel L.
Jackson](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Jackson,+Samuel+L.) - 'nuff said on
that. I think his lightsaber was the one that said "Bad Mother Fucker"
on it. And last, but very certainly not least (in fact, probably best in
my mind), we get to see Yoda really throw down and show us what being a
Jedi Master is all about. I could probably watch the Yoda scene over and
over and never get tired of it.

 Oh, and Episode II moves along way faster than Episode I, which is an
exceptionally good thing.

 Does the good outweigh the bad? Mostly. I think they could have done
way better with it, especially given that almost every actor in the
world would love to be in a Star Wars movie and they pick this
Christiansen kid I've never heard of. I mean, for example, [the kid they
chose to play Harry Potter](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Radcliffe,+Daniel)
*looks* like Harry should look, *sounds* like Harry should sound and
*acts* like Harry should act. Christiansen did none of those things for
Anakin. But this one does fill in a lot of gaps in the Star Wars saga
and you do get to see a lot of the cool Jedi stuff that we haven't seen
before, and it did move along fairly well and keep me entertained.

 So I'd say, uh, 7.5 out of 10. I liked it, but given the choice between
seeing this one or *[Spider-Man](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0145487)*
again, I'd probably go *Spider-Man*.
