---
layout: post
title: "CHiPs"
date: 2002-05-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 63
tags: [auto,home]
---
Okay, maybe not California Highway Patrol. More like "paint chips." As
in, "I found yet another chip out of the paint on my car that needs to
be touched up." This totals three. I did the touch up on two of them,
and I think I need to give a little more attention to one of those (it
looks... okay... but not the best). I found the third yesterday, and
it's about the size of a pencil eraser. Guess what I'll be doing this
weekend?!

 I called the [body shop I usually go
to](http://www.chrisandjohnsautobody.com/) in these cases and they said
they'd just be doing the same thing I'm going to be doing - touch up by
hand - unless I want them to actually repaint the whole panel. Which I
don't. It'd cost me roughly $45 to get them to fix it, so I may as well
do it myself, since it sounds pretty hit-and-miss anyway. And, if all
else fails, I can always go in and have them touch up my touch up.

 What a big pain. How come they don't make, like, indestructible paint?
Or, better yet, cast the car in the appropriate color metal to begin
with, so that the color is actually part of the body? Or at least mold
the plastic bumpers in the proper color so they don't chip. (I haven't
had any bumper problems, but that's still a good idea.) Maybe I'll call
someone and suggest that.

 Anyway.

 I've found a
[place](http://www.garbes.com/walldecor/pedestal_clocks.html) that
carries my [cocktail
table](http://www.skymall.com/cgi-bin/WebObjects/Store.woa/wa/gotoPage?dept=5418&sid=86854642%400&vid=32124263&page=detail&pid=13670706)
and will sell it to me and ship it out here for a grand total of about
$565, which is cheaper than the base price anywhere else has offered it
at. I'm going to do some last minute calling and we'll see if someone
out here can price match that. I doubt it. I talked to a local dealer
and the problem is twofold: First, they don't normally carry that table,
which means it's a special order; Second, the table weighs 90 pounds, so
it's going to *kill* me in freight. I don't know how this other place is
doing it, but if I can save the $100+, I'm going to do it.
