---
layout: post
title: "Return of the Fetish"
date: 2002-10-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 151
tags: [personal]
---
![Dita von Teese (16k
image)](https://hyqi8g.dm2302.livefilestore.com/y2pYK-Xp73R6MCiMLtbqPM-QjRhSR5GVD3_WtGiikn5AYQ8UIRzL2dqkswC1mqEipPquG0mbHz7JM5s_tVHMvuGxjb-LyjZx-OYIOVtYjXEpu4/20021028ditavonteese.jpg?psid=1)I
will be the first to admit that there are three things out there that
just *get me*: Corsets, stockings, and boots - in that order. There is
nothing sexier than a woman in a classy, tightly laced corset.
*Nothing.* A good close second is a nice set of stockings - with or
without garter belt (preferably with). Barring those two things, a
stylish pair of boots is unbelieveable.

 Hawks get trounced by Spokane. The score wasn't terrible (3-2), but the
play was shameful.

 Saturday was spent running errands. First thing in the morning we went
to a pancake breakfast at the local Masonic lodge (sidetrack: the word
*lodge* makes me think of a log cabin up in the woods... I wonder
why...) and stuffed ourselves on some pretty decent pancakes. After
that, we went home and cleaned up around the place, which was starting
to look pretty terrible. Then Jenn left to go do some stuff and I went
grocery shopping at both [Safeway](http://www.safeway.com) and [Trader
Joe's](http://www.traderjoes.com/). Got some good stuff, but that took a
long time. Finally, Saturday night found us watching the Hawks rally to
beat Tri-Cities. (A much better game, I thought.)

 Sunday was a very lazy day indeed. I went to my parents' house and
found that [Mom hadn't touched my Halloween
costume](/archive/2002/10/21/waxing-philosophic.aspx) so we finished it
up.

 Went to [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) and picked up a [Swiffer
WetJet](http://www.wetjet.com) mop because the cats are becoming
increasingly messy. I've attempted to explain to them that the food
should either be in the bowl or in their mouths, but they don't mind me.
It seems to be a game for them - pick up the food, drop it on the floor,
watch me get pissed off, then eat the food. Bad, bad kitties.

 And now I'm at work. The weekend was not nearly long enough and I'm
still tired. I will eventually take a week of PTO so I can get my Xev
cat declawed and fixed and so I can play a bit of [*GTA:
VC*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000696CZ/mhsvortex).
Somehow I don't think that I'll be as rested after that week as I'd
like, but we can always hope.

 I added [one more
category](/archive/2002/10/23/new-feature-categories-sort-of.aspx) to
the list of paraesthesia entries: *New Science*. These articles are the
theories I have on why stuff does what it does. My favorite thus far
(hey, there are only two right now) is my [*Theory of Indefinite
Commute*](/archive/2002/07/05/new-science-the-theory-of-indefinite-commute.aspx).
I worked for a long time on that one.

 *each household appliance is like a new science*

 Jenn and I will be going to a sneak preview of
[*I-Spy*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0297181) tonight. I didn't know it
[used to be a TV show](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0058816), but I suppose
that shows how into pop culture I am; my references start in the early
eighties and end in around 2000.

 [Seems that *Star Wars Episode 2: Attack of the Clones* will be coming
to the OMNIMAX theater at
OMSI.](http://www.omsi.org/visit/omnimax/#starwars) I'll have to look
into going.
