---
layout: post
title: "Not Enough Time"
date: 2002-10-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 141
tags: [movies,tv,personal,costumes]
---
There is not enough time in the day to do all the things I have to get
done.

 That, coupled with my distinct lack of patience, has me pretty much
topped-out as far as activity is concerned. It may not *look* like I'm
doing a lot, but I'm about ready to have a cardiac from the stress.

 The weekend... where to begin?

 Friday night, my dad and I went to see [*The
Transporter*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0293662), and liked it. I wrote
up a review a little bit ago and posted it, so [check that
out](/archive/2002/10/14/review-the-transporter.aspx).

 After the movie, my dad came back to my place and we watched three of
the first four episodes to [*Push,
Nevada*](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/primetime/push/index.html) that he
had recorded. I caught a few of the clues while watching, but after
checking out the [enochonline](http://www.enochonline.com/) web site, it
seems the game is much bigger than I am. There's money to be won, and
someone will win it. In the meantime, I enjoyed the show - it was very
[*David Lynch*](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Lynch,+David) - and I hope
[ABC](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/) doesn't kill it by putting it opposite
[*CSI*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/csi/) on Thursday nights.

 Saturday was a day of getting things done, and Saturday night Jenn and
I watched Seattle destroy the [Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com), three
to nothing. It was a terrible beating, and I am disappointed in the
Hawks for the distinct *lack of playing hockey* that was displayed.

 I also received my [ninja costume from
Karate-Mart](http://www.karate-mart.com/ninjauniform.html). Heh. I
bought an extra-large, figuring it would accommodate a 6'2" guy - after
all, the site says it will fit someone *over 6'3"*. Not so. The pants
fit more like skin-tight culottes and the shirt made me look like an
organ grinder monkey. I've packed the thing up and sent it back via
[UPS](http://www.ups.com) as of today, but I was thinking about this...

 It cost me $9.90 to ship the $30 uniform and a $6 fake sword. Let's
assume, for the sake of argument, that the wooden sword cost $4.90 to
ship. That means the uniform cost a total of $35. Well, to ship it
back, it cost me $8.90 because they request you ship things via UPS,
RPS, or some other insured shipping method, and that's the UPS charge.
They also charge you a 15% restocking fee - in my case, that's $4.50.
So that means it cost me ($5 original shipping + $8.90 return shipping
+ $4.50 restocking fee) a total of $18.40 to *try on a costume that
didn't fit*. Web shopping is not all it's cracked up to be, at least
when clothing is involved. Now you know why brick-and-mortar stores will
never go out of style.

 Jenn got her costume on Saturday at [Party
City](http://www.partycity.com/). [Mary Katherine Gallagher from
*Saturday Night
Live*](http://shop.store.yahoo.com/halloweenexpo/markatgalcos.html).
It's a good costume, too.

 Oh, and Jenn got some new jeans at [The Gap](http://www.gap.com/).
Normally I wouldn't mention something so mundane, but there was a bit of
a production involved with getting the jeans.

 Jenn's used to wearing the "reverse" cut jeans. I'm not even sure what
that means - how do you reverse fit a pair of jeans? Anyway, that's the
kind she wears. Or, should I say, "wore," because they don't make that
kind anymore? Which means that Jenn had to find a new cut of jeans to
wear.

 So we went into The Gap and she grabbed a pair of the "classic" jeans
off the rack and starts walking to the counter. I'm all, "Hey, aren't
you going to try them on? How do you know they'll fit?"

 "They'll fit," she said.

 I wasn't so sure. "Why don't you try them on so we don't have to come
back and return them?" After a bit of prodding, she went into the
dressing room and tried them on. A few minutes later, she came out.

 "I hate you because you're always right." Yeah, that's what I thought.
*They didn't fit.*

 She put the pants back, and the sales lady came over and asked if we
needed help. "No," said Jenn. "Yes," said I, "we do. She used to wear
the 'reverse' jeans but, of course, you don't carry those anymore. What
do you have now?" The sales lady gave us the ins and outs of the 300,000
different cuts of jeans that The Gap carries (none of which fit *me*)
and then told Jenn to try the "boot cut" kind.

 Jenn, of course, refused.

 After more prodding, she took the pants into the dressing room and
tried them on. You know what?

 *They fit just fine.* Plus, they look really good. Hella better than
those reverse-cut sons-of-bitches. This new pair of jeans has, oh, I
don't know... *personality*. I like 'em. Jenn's still getting used to
them, but I think she'll come around. (We did end up buying the boot cut
pair. I couldn't resist rubbing in how right I was for the rest of the
day, either.)

 Sunday I went to the Portland Comic Convention and picked up several
card sets and back issues that I had been looking for. I spent way too
much money, but such is the way of things. I was going to buy that stuff
anyway, so I might as well just get it over with.

 After that, I went to the local sporting goods store and picked up some
sweat pants and a hooded sweatshirt that I will magically transform into
a new ninja costume. Hey, I liked the sword and wanted to do something
with it. Besides, I can wear the sweats *other places than just a
costume party*. Good enough, then.

 So now it's Monday and I found out a little while ago that I need to
rebuild my desktop workstation because something weird is going on with
.NET application debugging. Not that I mind too much - the machine has
been running for a long time without a rebuild - but it's a time
consumer that I didn't want to have to deal with just now. Oh well, such
is life.
