---
layout: post
title: "Review: Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets"
date: 2002-11-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 168
tags: [movies]
---
[*Harry Potter and the Chamber of
Secrets*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0295297) is the second installment of
the Harry Potter movie series. The first ([*Harry Potter and the
Sorcerer's
Stone*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXI1/mhsvortex))
sort of set a precedent for the visual effects, imagery, and ability to
stick closely to the book, so going into this one I had certain
*expectations*.

 Now, I hate going into movies expecting anything. Nine times out of
ten, I'm going to come out disappointed.

 I came out loving this movie.

 Understand that this is not just more of the same. This movie is
*better* than the first. The effects are better. The characters are
better. Everything you liked about the first one is back, and it's
better than ever.

 The first movie was criticized for sticking too close to the book it
was based on. I don't understand that; isn't that the point of making a
movie out of a book - to bring the book to life on the screen? Well,
apologies to the other critics out there, but this one stays close to
its book, too, and I'm glad it does. Seeing the movie play out on the
screen the way it did in my mind when I read the book... it was
brilliance.

 All of the original actors return to reprise their roles from the
original (though slightly older and showing the signs of puberty;
[Daniel Radcliffe](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Radcliffe,%20Daniel) as Harry
has a noticeably deeper voice than before, and you even get a bit of a
crack out of [Rupert Grint](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Grint,%20Rupert) as
he plays Ron Weasley). Radcliffe is a likeable Harry, and every kid
always wanted friends like Ron (Grint) and Hermione ([Emma
Watson](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Watson,%20Emma%20(II))).

 The new characters were also wonderfully cast. [Kenneth
Branagh](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Branagh,%20Kenneth) does a perfect job
as Gilderoy Lockhart and [Miriam
Margolyes](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Margolyes,%20Miriam) is exactly as I
pictured Professor Sprout. The only character I wasn't too fond of was
Moaning Myrtle, played by [Shirley
Henderson](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Henderson,%20Shirley%20(I)). I'm not
sure if it was Henderson's annoying voice or the fact that she really
wasn't how I pictured Myrtle that bothered me. Oh well - a small price
to pay for such fun.

 Sadly, this will be the last time we see [Richard
Harris](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Harris,%20Richard) in his role as school
headmaster Albus Dumbledore. The role will need to be re-cast due to his
passing. He was a perfect Dumbledore, and he will be missed. This will
also be the last time we see [Chris
Columbus](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Columbus,%20Chris) directing; he has
passed the reins on to a new director, [Alfonso
Cuar√≥n](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Cuar%F3n,%20Alfonso).

 Anyway, what this basically boils down to is that you should see this
movie. If you liked the first one, you'll love this. If you haven't seen
the first one, what have you been doing? Go rent (or
[buy!](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXI1/mhsvortex)) the
first one, enjoy it, and promptly see the second. You won't be
disappointed.
