---
layout: post
title: "Gas-X"
date: 2002-10-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 139
tags: [Traffic,General Ramblings]
---
I just spent *45 minutes* at the gas station.
 
 "Why," you might ask, "did you just spend 45 irretrievable minutes of
your life at - of all places - a gas station?"
 
 And I'll say, "Because, my dear, dear friend, the people at the gas
station are *fucking deaf*."
 
 "And what," you might further inquire, "exactly do you mean by that?"
 
 Therein lies the story.
 
 I went over to [Barnes & Noble](http://www.bn.com) to pick up some .NET
programming books on my lunch hour. Hey, I can expense 'em, right? So I
got some good stuff to help me learn new and cool things.
 
 I then went to [Haggen](http://www.haggen.com/) to pick up some lunch
items so I can put lunches together next week. Noticed they had some
Dijon garlic mustard there so I had to get some. It's... okay. Not what
I was expecting. But I digress.
 
 Finally, last stop before I came back to work, I stopped at the gas
station. [In]conveniently enough, my cell phone rang just as the guy
came to ask me what I wanted. I answered the phone (said "hang on a
sec!") and looked at the guy and told him, "Fill with premium."
 
 "Fill?" asks the guy.
 
 "Yup. Fill," say I, and go back to the phone conversation.
 
 I finish up on the phone and look back to see how much money this is
going to cost me when I notice that he's *filling my tank with
**regular***.
 
 Now, a bit of inside info: Normally when people ask for premium gas,
it's a ploy to look important or rich. Yes, I do seriously believe that.
But sometimes they ask for it because their car *requires* it. I have a
2002 [Acura RSX
Type-S](http://www.acura.com/models/model_index.asp?module=rsx). The
standard RSX requires a gas with 86+ octane rating or it will ping and
knock; the Type-S requires a 91+ octane rating or it will ping and knock
(and, I've heard, slowly just destroy things in there). Regular unleaded
is an 87 octane; "Plus" unleaded is 89; Premium is 92. I *have* to buy
premium or it fucks up my car.
 
 I hop out of the car and stop the pump from filling. At this point, I'm
pretty much screwed, though - I've got a full tank of regular gas, way
too low on the octane for me to want to risk going anywhere.
 
 I get the manager out there and he's all, "Well, we can stick a can of
octane boost in there and that'll bring the octane level up where you
want it..." Cool, let's do it. "...But we don't have any right now, so
you have the choice of going to get some yourself or waiting for one of
my guys to go get it and bring it back."
 
 I'll let you in on a secret: I don't know *jack squat* about cars. I
don't know where to shop for parts, which parts or chemicals to shop
for, or what I'd do with them if I did. Besides which, I'm not driving
the car because *it's got the wrong gas in it*.
 
 So I chose to wait for the guy to bring back some octane boost. He was
pretty quick about it, only about a half hour or so, but damn, that's
*45 minutes at the gas station*.
 
 Lesson learned: Watch every move everyone makes around you or someone's
going to fuck up your shit.
