---
layout: post
title: "Square One"
date: 2002-07-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 86
tags: [Homeownership]
---
The title on this entry is even more appropriate than I'd like, since I
started writing it, got really frickin' far in it, then somehow lost it
all - the admin page where I enter my stuff reloaded and, just like
[Keiser
Soze](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005V9HH/mhsvortex), it
was gone.
 
 What it really implies, though, is that Jenn and I are almost back to
where we were a month ago before this [smoke-damage-soot-epidemic
thing](/archive/2002/06/25/smoke-on-the-water.aspx) hit us.
 
 Wednesday afternoon, my electronics (TV, DVD player, PS2, turntable,
tape deck, VCR, speakers) all returned to me. The down side is that when
the cleaning company took the digital pictures of where I had everything
placed and how it was all set up, the pictures didn't come out. So I got
to spend three hours that night unhooking everything, rearranging it
all, then plugging it all back together and testing it. What a huge
pain. I don't mind hooking up stereo equipment, but it wasn't on my list
of things to do that night.
 
 Then Wednesday night [Horizon
Restoration](http://www.horizonrestoration.com/) came by for their final
walkthrough and we signed them out because all was well. With any luck,
we won't have to see them again. I do recommend Horizon, though - they
do great work. If you're ever in a crappy situation like we were, give
'em a call.
 
 Jenn and I put our DVDs and videotapes on one of our two bookshelves,
books on the other. That, along with our new effort to box up videos and
books we don't use very often, is conserving vast quantities of space in
our living room, allowing us to spread out the chairs and such and just
overall improving the space utilization issue.
 
 Where we're going to put the boxes is a whole other story.
 
 Last night I got my [new coffee
table](http://www.skymall.com/cgi-bin/WebObjects/Store.woa/wa/gotoPage?sid=91696721%400&page=detail&pid=13670706&dept=5420)
delivered! I found it in the [SkyMall](http://www.skymall.com) catalog
while on the [trip to
Vegas](/archive/2002/05/20/parlez-vous-las-vegas.aspx) and then bought
it from a local retailer, [Shleifer
Furniture](http://www.shleiferfurniture.citysearch.com). The table
itself totally rocks. I'm surprised nobody else I know has a
clock-table. It's just very cool. The only issue I can see, which really
isn't an issue for me, is that you can't put a lot of junk on the table
because it obstructs the view of the clock and just looks bad. Well,
shucks; I guess that means I have to be organized.
 
 The table goes well with the [*Moulin
Rouge!*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005QZ7U/mhsvortex)
theme that we have going on in our living room. It has sort of an
antique crackle finish to it; the wrought iron with a rusty patina. I
love it.
 
 Speaking of the *Moulin Rouge!* theme, ever since we redecorated, I've
really gotten into [Henri De
Toulouse-Lautrec](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1857993632/mhsvortex)
and [Alphonse Maria
Mucha](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0300074190/mhsvortex) art.
Especially the Mucha. Something about the simplicity of it appeals to
me. Simple elegance. I'm actually sort of addicted to the Mucha stuff;
if I go in a store and pass through their art section, I have to look
and see if they have Mucha art... and then I usually end up buying some.
I really need to watch that. I'm going to go broke buying art.
 
 On a whole other note, [my company](http://www.corillian.com) is having
their yearly "Water World" party. That's where everyone has a big water
gun fight. It's pretty fun. There's also a dunk tank that management
folks get into so the employees can dunk them. My boss, Greg, is getting
in this time, so I'll be sticking around to do a little Greg-dunking.
Should be fun.
