---
layout: post
title: "Busy Yet Bored"
date: 2002-08-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 100
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I've been a little lax this week on the blog, this being the first entry
since Tuesday, and I'm really not sure why that is except that I may be
just sort of... blanking... on things due to work.
 
 I'm getting to a point where there's so much to do and so little time,
and most of the stuff is not stimulating at all, it's just busywork
(formatting servers and installing Windows 2000, etc.) that doesn't
really require any *brains* but lots of *time*. So my mind is wandering
a lot more and I'm getting sidetracked by things much easier because
whatever I'm doing at any given time usually isn't engaging enough to
keep my interest.
 
 So I *think* about blogging, but I never actually *get to it* because I
get so damned sidetracked on things.
 
 The good part of that is, I've had lots of time to catch up on reading.
I finished [*The Bourne
Identity*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553260111/mhsvortex)
while formatting servers, and now I'm reading the sequel, [*The Bourne
Supremacy*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553263226/mhsvortex).
 
 I was worried with this one that the action wouldn't be as good. I
mean, at the end of *The Bourne Identity*, there's closure. The story's
over. How is the author going to get the main character back into the
action?
 
 Don't worry - it works. I'm loving it so far just as much as the first
one.
 
 I finally got all of my Amazon.com gift certificates cashed in and
pre-ordered my copies of [*Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000696CZ/mhsvortex) and
the [James Bond Collection, Vol.
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006BH8G/mhsvortex). Those
should be coming sometime at the end of October. That'll be good.
 
 *GTA: VC* looks like it's going to have some cool music and great
graphics if the [fake web site](http://www.kentpaul.com) is any
indication. The sports page shows someone driving a golf cart - I
*really* hope you can snake golf carts. That'd rock.
 
 My friend Heidi is, apparently, quitting her job and leaving the
country. I think she said she was going to Guatemala, though I can't
imagine really why *anyone* would just up and go to Guatemala of all
places. Anyway, she's got a party tonight for that so Jenn and I will be
going. If anything, it'll be good to see her again. Haven't seen her for
quite some time.
 
 Sunday is the company picnic at [Oak's Park](http://www.oakspark.com/).
Free rides for everyone, so Jenn and I are totally going. If anything,
it'll be fun to play "corners" on the Scrambler. I think Jenn came out
pretty bruised last time we went there. Loads of fun to be had by all.
 
 I think this weekend I'm going to see about renting [*Resident
Evil*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JL3A/mhsvortex)
since I never saw it in theaters and wanted to. I heard it was actually
pretty decent. We'll see.
 
 The last issue from our [soot
incident](/archive/2002/06/25/smoke-on-the-water.aspx) is that they
still owe us \$348.39 for expenses (food to be replaced, damaged
lampshades to be replaced, etc.) and *they won't answer my phone calls*.
I've called once a day, every day for a week now and I always seem to
get voicemail. My irritation level is building rapidly.
