---
layout: post
title: "paraesthesia unleashed!"
date: 2002-02-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
You've no doubt noticed the vast site overhaul that has rendered the
content change seen here.
 
 [Let me explain. No, there is too much. Let me sum
up.](http://www.princessbride.8m.com/script.htm#49)
 
 After fighting with time and resource issues maintaining my old site, I
decided it was time to take a different approach to web publishing.
 
 The problem stems from the fact that updating my site in the standard
"create an HTML page, upload it through FTP, then keep changing and
updating the content" fashion wasn't working. For one thing, the very
idea there requires FTP, which also, therefore, requires that my
employer allow FTP through the firewall. Not gonna happen.
 
 "Well, why didn't you update it from home, then?" you might ask.
Because I'm online **all day long** at work, and the last thing I really
want to do when I get home is dial in at
[56-stupid-kbps](http://www.hevanet.com) and drag through HTML updates.
Not fun.
 
 But even beyond the ability/time issue, I noticed that my interests
were changing. Gen<sup>13</sup> became, well, fairly lame. It was a long, slow
downhill path, but the people who were in from the beginning have *got*
to admit that it doesn't have the edge it once did. They're slowly
recouping the humor but humor alone just doesn't cut it.
 
 So I decided to move from the manual HTML way of life into the now. The
"blog."
 Now, before you jump on my back like a rabid monkey, let me first say
that I was [initially] reluctant to go this route. I mean, after all, it
would pretty much mean the end to the Gen<sup>13</sup> page and search engine. It
would definitely mean the end to the fan art gallery. (There was some
great art, there, by the way, but it ate so much *space*. I only get,
like, five or ten megs on this account.)
 
 Quite the downside, right? Then consider the upside: I can post stuff
more often, with much less pain, now. Not that you all want to read my
meaningless ramblings, but it *is* more fulfilling to post something
that means something to me. And now that I can do it relatively
painlessly, I can do it more often. Which means that you get more of me,
more often.
 
 Not only that, but I can set up other authors on the site, so
eventually you may hear from the rest of my utterly tiny circle of
friends.
 
 And if you know me, or even if you don't, you have to understand one
key thing about me: everything in my life is an ordeal. Going to the
store and getting a candy bar can turn into an epic saga of good over
evil. Hopefully I'll be getting some of that out to you all so you can
see what excitement you're missing out on. I got lots to say about
stuff. :)
 
 I'll also try to put in some cool links to various interesting places
so if you get bored while you're out surfing, maybe I can steer you to
some of the less travelled (or, at least, more entertaining) corners of
the web.
 
 As of this writing, I've posted the blog, I've replaced the home page,
and I've got my new domain - [paraesthesia.com](/) pointing to my home
page. If you haven't seen the home page, [check it out](/) - I'm pretty
pleased with it. Especially after not having done any Flash or graphics
work for, oh, ever.
 
 So, for better or worse, here it is. Hope you like it. So far, I do.

