---
layout: post
title: "Can Music Save Your Mortal Soul?"
date: 2002-05-08 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 57
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
[Days Until [Vegas](/archive/2002/04/08/vegas-baby-vegas.aspx): 6]
 
 Or, more accurately, can [MTV](http://www.mtv.com) save your mortal
soul? I think not.
 
 I was getting ready to watch [The
Osbournes](http://www.mtv.com/onair/osbournes/) last night and flipped
on MTV a little early while waiting for it to come on and I was greeted
with potentially the most hideous thing I've ever witnessed. *Ever.*
 
 For there, glaring at me through my television screen, were the most
*pathetically shallow* individuals ever conceived, putting on a show of
emotion for the September 11 attacks.
 
 The show was MTV's [The Real
World](http://www.mtv.com/onair/realworld/), which, as most folks who
know me know, I think is one of the lamest shows ever. Yeah, I've
watched my share of it in late night "nothing's on TV" times, but
watching The Real World any more is like watching an extended [Jerry
Springer](http://www.jerryspringer.com/) episode - you never think it
can get any more convoluted or lame, but then, *somehow*, it does. The
lesbian lover shows up; the Nazi boyfriend lights someone on fire; etc.,
etc.
 
 Anyway, back to the point: For half an hour I watched a group of people
presumably my age cry their hearts out, kiss each other, pray, and sing
in mourning for the Sept. 11 incident. This, in and of itself, is not a
problem. But the manner in which this mourning occurred felt, to me, to
be the most inauthentic display of feeling witnessed on national
television.
 
 The amount of legitimate feeling there equated to a person you've never
met coming up to you and kissing you on both cheeks. Yeah, you just got
kissed, but did it *mean* anything? Nope. The way these people so...
*deliberately*... feel their emotions... it's almost frustrating. It was
like watching someone tell them "Something terrible just happened. The
country is in disarray. You should now feel bad," and they then feel
what they're told.
 
 What I'm even *more* worried about is that this might be *actually how
people are now*. Maybe I'm an exception to the norm (which wouldn't be
the first time). Maybe I'm just inarticulate and my feelings overpower
me. But when I feel grief, I can't just sit there and say, "Well, I'm
feeling grief right now, as evidenced by the tears you see rolling down
my face." It's not a scientific, and rarely an easily communicatable,
thing. The display I witnessed was... so robotic.
 
 Is that how people are anymore? If so, that'd explain a *lot* about the
world and why things that happen in the world get the reaction they do.
I really hope folks aren't as shallow as all that.
 
 Or maybe it was just the way the show was cut together. Here's hoping.
 
 On another note...
 
 The Osbournes was a great episode. "Dinner With Ozzy." They interviewed
him and showed highlights from the season. It was too funny, and it sort
of put all the antics into perspective. As Ozzy says, "[he] doesn't
think the way [they] live is abnormal... that's how [he's] always
lived."
 
 Went to lunch today and saw at the local [KB
Toy](http://www.kbtoy.com/) outlet that they had giant
[ReBoot](http://www.reboot.com/) figures for \$5 each. Had to get the
two they had left. More crap to cram into the apartment.
