---
layout: post
title: "Waxing Philosophic"
date: 2002-10-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 144
tags: [personal]
---
This weekend was okay.

 Friday night a couple of our friends, Aaron and Melissa, came over for
dinner and a movie. We ended up cooking random stuff on the grill and
then watching the [Superbit](http://www.superbitdvd.com/) edition of
[*The Fifth
Element*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005NRNA/mhsvortex).

 Tiny sidetrack: The idea behind Superbit DVDs is that the extra stuff -
the commentary, the behind the scenes documentaries, etc. - isn't there.
Instead, that extra disc space is used to allow for a much higher
quality digital transfer of the film. The picture is clearer, the sound
is cleaner. Before, I didn't notice the picture on this sort of thing
because my TV didn't really justify it. With the new TV, it's a *very
noticeable difference*. I look forward to getting more of the Superbit
series.

 So that was Friday night. Pretty fun, and it was good to see them
again. We don't get together often enough.

 Saturday we *were* going to head west and visit my friend Jack at the
[Tillamook Cheese factory](http://www.tillamookcheese.com/). The problem
is, I think there's a bit of a communication gap between me and Jack.

 See, Jack likes to call people. He likes to resove issues over the
telephone. I think he specifically doesn't email people because he'd
rather resolve things verbally over the phone.

 I don't call people. I *hate* the goddamn phone. I might be your best
friend, but I really don't have anything to say to you over the phone.
The phone, to me, seems like a halfway sort of thing - if you have
something quick, fine, call me; if you wanna talk, get your ass over
here. Instead, I email people. I like to be able to read what I'm
saying, process it, amend it, make sure it's right, and send it. I like
to be able to read what people have to say to me and verify that I
understood it. When it's over the phone, all bets are off. Maybe I
misheard what you were saying. Maybe I agreed to something and forgot.
You know why? Because I'm a very visually oriented. If I didn't see it
written anywhere, I'm *not going to remember it*.

 That's actually what I'm waxing philosophic over today. Communications
differences in people. Some folks love personal interaction. I fucking
hate people. Sure, you could pull out the "but I'm your friend! do you
hate me?" thing. Understand that this is a generalization. I don't hate
any individual person necessarily; I hate people *en masse*. I
especially hate personal interaction (and yes, that probably *does*
apply to you.) I like the idea of large gatherings, but I hate people. I
like to go to parties with people that I know, but I hate going to
parties where I have to "mingle" and "meet people." That seems so
impersonal. I don't *want* to meet people.

 That makes me wonder - is it a sign of the times that some folks get to
be more comfortable with the distance that electronic interaction puts
between themselves and others? I think someone at Portland State
University was doing a study about that a while ago; I wonder what the
findings were.

 Regardless, Saturday we didn't end up visiting Jack. (Sorry, Jack.
*Email me.*) Instead, we finished things up around the house that don't
normally get done, went shopping, did chores.

 Jenn got this perfume called
[*Angel*](http://www.fragrancenet.com/cgi-bin/frame.cgi?cmd=rc&gvmi=W.ANGEL.)
that is just *the bomb*. Interesting story about that: I was at work on
Friday and the HR lady here was in the cube next to mine and I could
smell her perfume. I liked it; it reminded me of something I can't quite
put my finger on, but it was good. I asked her what it was - Angel. So I
told Jenn to stop at the store on her way home from school and smell it.
She didn't get a chance to do that. Then Friday night, Aaron and Melissa
showed up at our place and Melissa had Angel on. Weird, huh? Anyway,
Jenn got herself some Angel (yummy!) and now she smells like heaven.

 Sunday I tried to finish fixing my ninja costume for Halloween, but
Jenn's mom's sewing machine sucks ass and decided it would rather try to
eat my fabric than actually function. I've tried using that POS before,
and it does this same thing every time. It seems to work for Jenn's mom,
but Jenn's mom ain't here so it just chows my fabric. I'll just have to
go use *my* mom's *fully operational, non-fabric-eating* sewing
machine.

 Sunday evening we went and watched the
[Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) break their three-game losing streak
and win against Tri-Cities. I was scared for a while, there, but we
pulled through in the end.
