---
layout: post
title: "A Special Joy in Coffee Black"
date: 2002-10-31 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 156
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Today is not going to be a good day.
 
 I got to work after my allergy shot appointment (for which the nurse
was late) to find that several things had gone amiss in the 15 hours
since I'd last been here.
 
 First, we're working on an automated approach to rolling out Office XP
to the users here. I'm participating in the test rollout, being part of
the CIT team and all. Basically, they configure some things on the
network and when you reboot your computer you get Office XP
automatically installed. Well, apparently, Access 2002 breaks certain
apps that a few people use so last night the Office XP team here (a team
of like two people) started experimenting with figuring out how to
install some machines with Office XP complete and some with a subset of
Office XP, minus Access.
 
 When I turned on my computers this morning, Office XP (which was
already installed) was *uninstalled* and then *reinstalled* for me.
Automatically. Thanks. Because that won't screw *anything else on my
machine up.*
 
 Next, I opened up my email box to find several beauties. One email from
Microsoft Support told me that this gigantic program I had written
basically needs to be reengineered - almost rewritten from the ground
up. Apparently they'd rather have me do a shitload of work than fix the
problem on their end. Fine. Another email from Microsoft Security
Services alerted me to a bunch of IIS patches I have to roll out ASAP,
which, of course, means I need to test them on my test machine, then
fill out the change control forms on the servers that need the patch,
then roll out the patch, etc., etc. What a pain in the ass, and just
what I wanted to do today. There were also three new help desk cases
assigned to me because users here don't seem to know how to use the web,
even though we're a web software company. It never ceases to amaze me.
 
 Finally, while I was figuring out all the stuff I have going and
pending, I realized that I'm the major bottleneck on almost all of the
projects I'm on because I've got too many damn irons in the fire (so to
speak). No stress there, baby.
 
 I did try using the voice recorder feature on my iPaq during the ride
home last night, though, so I'll put the thoughts I came up with here,
in the order I came up with them. Honestly, I don't remember a single
one, so I'll be just as surprised at them as you are. Here we go...
 
 **Transcription software.** I need to look into getting transcription
software for my iPaq, if such a thing exists. This would make the
writing of the blog way easier, assuming the software was any good.
 
 **My mind is going, and I really can't remember what I did yesterday
(or even last week), so maybe the blog is spoiling me.** While talking
to my friend Liz at lunch yesterday, she asked me what's been going on
with me. I was like, "Haven't you read my blog? I post all the good
stuff there." And she was all, "No. Can't you just tell me?" That's when
I realized that *I don't remember what's been going on*. I write it down
here so I don't *have to* remember. I've never been very good at
remembering chronologically-related things (dates, times, happenings),
so maybe that's just my nature. Then again, I'm wondering if I'm not
even trying to remember because I have it written down right here.
 
 **Cheap American toys and the lack of quality.** I bought a small
die-cast metal car yesterday in the shape of a [2002 Acura RSX
Type-S](http://www.acura.com/models/model_index.asp?module=rsx) (the car
I drive). It had this ridiculous spoiler on the back that was almost the
size of the car, and while I was contemplating what to do about that, it
came off in my hand. I didn't even apply any pressure to it - it just
*broke*. Where's the quality anymore? I remember a time when you could
take a 20-pound sledgehammer to a Matchbox car and it'd break your
sledgehammer. Damn.
 
 **If I can't remember things now, how will I even remember to listen to
these recordings?** This was sort of a disjointed thought that sprung
from the above *My mind is going...* thought. Basically, I'll forget I
even recorded stuff on my iPaq to listen to later. That's pretty sad.
 
 ***Bizarre Love Triangle* is one of the best songs *ever*.** I was
listening to the New Order album
[*Substance*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002LCK/mhsvortex)
in the car. I think the statement speaks for itself.
 
 **I wonder if I aspire to speak like Jay and Silent Bob?** For those
who have seen any of the [View Askew](http://www.viewaskew.com/)
films... I sometimes come up with shit that even I don't know where it
came from. I think subconsciously, I try to be like the characters from,
say, [*Jay and Silent Bob Strike
Back*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CY67/mhsvortex).
 
 **I think my blog is a lot like the TV show
[*Seinfeld*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0098904) - it's a blog about
*nothing*.** I'm thinking that's true. I read back on some of the stuff,
and it reads like a bad episode of *Seinfeld* - nothing happens to me,
yet I write about it anyway.
 
 **Driving my car at night reminds me of the SR-71 Blackbird spy jet.**
The inside and the outside of my car are both black, so you don't see
anything in the car that isn't lit up. When you turn the lights on, the
gauges all light up red. And I don't mean the whole back of the thing -
only the letters, numbers, and other markings light up. I dig it.
 
 **I always appreciate those people who want to drive *extra safely* and
go 15 mph in a 25 mph zone.** Because you know that the extra 10 mph is
just *killing* them. Ice cream trucks go at least 30 mph. Get a move-on,
people.
 
 There you have it. The latest thoughts, as they happened.
 
 I read this back and wonder if that tape recorder I so desperately need
is such a good idea after all.
