---
layout: post
title: "Turning Japanese"
date: 2002-04-23 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 47
tags: [Media,Gaming]
---
[Days Until [Vegas](/archive/2002/04/08/vegas-baby-vegas.aspx): 21]
 
 Not to sound like a whiny grandmother, but my sinuses have been acting
up something awful lately. I've noticed it slowly getting worse over the
last couple of years and I've turned into an antihistamine junkie, which
I'm sure is damaging my liver or some other critical organ, so I've made
a doctor's appointment on Wednesday to get some
[Allegra-D](http://www.allegra.com/) or something similar that might be
able to relieve this trauma.
 
 My copy of [Dance Dance
Revolution](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005A774/mhsvortex)
came in the mail yesterday. The [dance
pad](http://www.buynshop.com/productinfophp3/VG-DDR-ULTX) should be here
today or tomorrow. Admittedly, I was skeptical about the idea of a
dancing game. I've seen clips of games like [PaRappa the
Rapper](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005UNWD/mhsvortex) and
such, and the whole concept sounded, well, stupid. Hit the buttons with
the beat of the music? Puh-leeze. But I put DDR into the PS2 and fired
it up... and surprisingly, it's a lot of fun, even with the standard
game controller. I can see how it could be addictive. The music's pretty
cool, too, and I thought it was really going to suck. I'm looking
forward to the dance pad now to see how much more difficult it is.
Considering I was having a hard time just keeping up with the buttons I
can only imagine the terror I'm going to bring into the apartment when I
bust out my oh-so-coordinated dance skillz. I suppose practice makes
perfect.
 
 That all said, I am *not* going out to get [Mr.
Mosquito](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000639VQ/mhsvortex)
or any of the other "fascinating" [life-fantasy
games](http://www.salon.com/tech/feature/2001/01/23/ddr/) the Japanese
people come up with. I have my limits.
 
 In other news, and it's not so much *news* as a general realization
I've made and feel like sharing, I have gotten to a point in my career
where I am unable to explain what I am currently working on to anyone
except other application developers in my boat. That's a little
disheartening, to be honest, since I find it nice to share work-related
joys and pains with others. If other folks don't *get it*, the sharing
becomes sort of moot; it takes the punch out of a story if you have to
explain the details you figure are common knowledge (at least in your
own circles). I've even gotten past the point where I can adequately
explain what I'm doing or how it works to my boss; he's a web developer
like myself, but more into the administrative side of things, so when I
get into [XML and Web Services](http://www.gotdotnet.com/) and such, I
just get a blank look...
 
 Another poor segue: I think I want a
[SoundBug](http://www.thinkgeek.com/stuff/computing/5a15.shtml). It's
this cool device that you can affix to any hard surface and turn that
surface into a speaker. Connect two together - stereo. Apparently, it
[sounds a lot like notebook computer
speakers](http://www.lockergnome.com/issues/techspecialist/20020412.html),
which isn't too bad. The novelty of the whole thing is really what gets
me. The only thing stopping me is they're \$50. Each. I really don't
have *that* kind of disposable income, especially after my DDR
investment. I guess we'll see.
