---
layout: post
title: "A Moral Imperative"
date: 2002-04-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 51
tags: [movies,auto,tv]
---
[Days Until [Vegas](/archive/2002/04/08/vegas-baby-vegas.aspx): 14]
 
 I pre-ordered my copy of *[Real
Genius](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000065U1Q/mhsvortex)*
yesterday. I'm stoked. Jenn doesn't understand why I'm so all over this
thing. I asked her what she thought of the movie. "It was okay, but I
didn't think it was as great as you did," she said.
 
 Great? I think this was one of the defining movies of my *very being*.
I wanted to *be* Chris Knight ([Val
Kilmer](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Kilmer,+Val)). I *still want to be*
Chris Knight. Watching *Real Genius* gives me the warm fuzzies as I
relive all the good memories associated with that time in my life. I
guess I just sort of assumed it was that way for *everyone*. Maybe just
not with this movie.
 
 (Oh, and I'm still irritated the soundtrack for this isn't out.)
 
 Anyway...
 
 My friend Mike quit smoking recently. Or, at least, has begun the
attempt to quit smoking. I think that's cool. Smoking, while socially
acceptable, is probably one of the nastiest habits ever. I would almost
rather deal with an alcoholic than a smoker; I can smell the smoker from
further away than I can smell an alcoholic (yes, even the *really drunk*
ones), and I'm not allergic and stuffed up when I sit next to an
alcoholic, whereas the smoker really gets to me. So I'm really happy for
him that he's on the patch and giving it an earnest try. I hope it works
for him.
 
 I have a couple of tiny rock chips on the side of my car (probably 1mm
diameter) so I bought a bottle of touch-up paint. The thing is, I'm
scared to death I'm gonna mess it up. If there's a way to screw this up,
I'll find it, so I'm sort of stressing about it. As it is, I'm going to
have to go get a smaller paintbrush because the one in the cap of the
bottle is too big. I'll probably do that this weekend - wash the car, do
the touch-up, wait for it to dry, and wax the whole thing. My car is in
desperate need for some love.
 
 This past Friday was the *series* finale of
*[Lexx](http://www.scifi.com/lexx/)*, one of my favorite shows. I am
sorry to see it go, but then, I'd rather have it go out on a high note,
when it's still good, then to languish in mediocrity and die miserably
like [some other shows I know](http://www.thex-files.com/).
 
 It was my donut day today at work, so I got the donuts, then noticed
that [Haggen](http://www.haggen.com/) carries
[POG](http://www.geocities.com/TheTropics/Shores/6794/o-breakfast.html).
Yay, me! So I picked some of that up because I haven't had it since I
was in Maui, several years ago. Tasty!
 
 For the geeks out there: I *hate* Active Directory. Absolutely hate it.
It could have been as simple as LDAP, but instead, Microsoft made it
x-times more complex (by adding "features") so now it's a bitch to
program against, at least for me. The current thorn in my side revolves
around the fact that somehow our Active Directory server won't let me
list the groups a given user is a member of. Interesting, since that
*worked last week*. Of course, nobody's *changed anything*, at least
according to the folks who maintain it, so I've got a support call in to
Microsoft to see if they can figure it out. And just so ya know, if you
put a call in to Microsoft, unless you mark it as *Urgent!!!* (yes, with
three exclamation points minimum), they take their own sweet time about
it.
