---
layout: post
title: "A Very Unbirthday"
date: 2002-07-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 90
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Since tomorrow is my birthday, I will take a cue from [Walt Disney's
rendition of *Alice In
Wonderland*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00004R99L/mhsvortex)
and sing myself the "Unbirthday Song."
 
 Now that I've done that, I feel better.
 
 Jenn gave me her gift early since she realized I'd suspect something if
she hadn't, and rightly so. She got me
[lettering](http://www.sherwoodicearena.com/proshop.html) for my [Winter
Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) jersey - my favorite player, Eric
Bowen, \#26. For those in the Winter Hawks know I'll admit that no, he
wasn't the greatest player in the world. He was a mediocre puck handler
and had okay skating skills. But when he was on the ice, no opponent was
safe from the wrath, man. That boy would throw down unlike anything ever
seen. He's actually what convinced me to buy season tickets in the first
place.
 
 So Jenn took me and my jersey to [Northwest Skate
Authority](http://www.sherwoodicearena.com/proshop.html) and we sent it
out for lettering. Yay, me! I'm stoked. I have wanted that for a long
time but really didn't know when I'd get it done. So now it's good to
go, and I'm a happy camper.
 
 Speaking of birthdays and unbirthdays (sort of): let it be known that I
hate cards. I hate 'em. Cards are the sappiest, most meaningless show of
feeling ever. It's \$3 you'll never reclaim - you get the card, you sign
your name, you hand it to the recipient, they read it, they pitch it.
There's the life cycle. If they're environmentally conscious, they might
recycle it. However, there are two exceptions that I have found thus far
to the "card rule." The first is a handmade card. Anyone who takes the
time to create a card by hand - not just with one of those ready-made
card programs on the computer, but actually works to create the card -
has legitimized their feelings in physical form. I appreciate that. The
second is a certain series of cards distributed by [Flavia
Art](http://www.flavia.com/). This particular series has a nice, rich
artwork to it, a decorated envelope, and just pretty much makes me happy
just looking at them. Here's a [birthday card in that
series](http://www.flavia.com/store/flaviaStore_Main.cfm?productID=635&action=detail);
here's the [anniversary
card](http://www.flavia.com/store/flaviaStore_Main.cfm?productID=643&action=detail)
I bought my parents this year. They have
[posters](http://www.flavia.com/store/flaviaStore_Main.cfm?productID=304&action=detail)
like that, too. Good stuff.
 
 Jenn and I go see [*The Phantom of the
Opera*](http://www.thephantomoftheopera.com/) on Wednesday. I'm really
looking forward to it. I've never seen it before, but I know the music
by heart, so I'm expecting great things.
 
 Oh... went shopping this weekend with Jenn because she wanted to find a
dress to wear to *Phantom* and something for my sister's wedding on
August 9. I'm not sure if I'd call it a successful trip. See, I'm not
too picky about clothing. Or maybe I just find stuff that I like and buy
it regardless of how it hangs on me, how it's cut, etc. If I like it and
it generally fits, I get it. I mean, I walked into the store, wasn't
even looking for shorts, and found some rockin' shorts that fit, on
sale. No problems.
 
 Jenn's more of an enigma in that respect. She didn't want a black dress
because you "can't wear black to a wedding" (why, exactly, is beyond me;
I'm wearing a black suit, after all). She didn't want anything too long
because it's going to be hot at *Phantom* (it's pretty hot this week in
Portland). And so on.
 
 Anyway, we shopped for *hours*. Seriously. I walked the entire mall,
saw everything I wanted to see in every other store, and *still* spent
time in the "man chair" outside the womens' dressing room in [Meier and
Frank](http://www.meierandfrank.com). In the end, you know what she
bought?
 
 A sleeveless black dress that goes to the ground, in the style of one
of those Chinese dresses. And she's *not even going to wear it in the
near future*. She'll wear something more casual to *Phantom* so I don't
have to wear a suit (which is a good thing) and then wear an outfit she
already owns to the wedding.
 
 Sigh.
 
 Other than that, I'm still reading [*The Bourne
Identity*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553260111/mhsvortex)
and totally loving it. I think I may dedicate some time to it when I get
home.
