---
layout: post
title: "Greatest Moments"
date: 2002-10-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 134
tags: [music,tv]
---
I picked up the [*American Idol Greatest
Moments*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006JL4I/mhsvortex)
CD this morning after my allergy shots and I'm reasonably pleased.
Besides the fact that [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) had it on
sale for $12.97, it's got some pretty good stuff on it. But I do have a
tiny gripe.

 The music itself seems somehow... underprocessed. Or something. Have
you ever heard a low-budget Christian album? Or maybe someone singing a
song along with the demo on a [Casio
keyboard](http://www.casio.com/musicalinstruments/)? The songs sound
like that. Like the music in the background is slightly overproduced
while the singer got a $10 microphone and a maximum of two takes in the
studio. Maybe the mixing is off or something. But it's bugging me like
nobody's business.

 And to top it off, [AJ
Gil](http://idolonfox.msn.com/contestants/ind/abner_gil/default.asp) is
on this motherfucker, and I *can't stand* his nasal Backstreet-wannabe
voice. He destroys a perfectly good Stevie Wonder tune. I'm getting
worked up just thinking about it.

 I've been playing a lot of [*Dynasty Warriors
3*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005RL4E/mhsvortex) lately
with Jenn and it's been pretty fun. I've been building up my character's
strength so I can better defeat some of the single-player levels. We've
played all the multiplayer levels several times, so now it's time to
play some more of the single-player levels so I can unlock more of the
multipayer ones. Lucky for me, she's got a meeting tonight, so I'll
hammer away at that so next time we play we can try some new stuff.

 Jenn is having a [similar
problem](/archive/2002/09/30/no-hat-luck.aspx) to me in finding a good
Alice costume. The only decent one comes in satin, which isn't even
right - I'm pretty sure Alice didn't run around in Wonderland wearing
all satin. Also, I haven't seen any Alice costumes that have the proper
petticoat with them - Alice had a petticoat.

 Anyway, that whole thing is a problem. I'm leaning toward the ninja
costume more and more, but it would be cool if Jenn could go as Alice.
Alice is a hottie.

 I exercised extreme willpower yesterday while shopping. The new *Harry
Potter* Legos are in Fred Meyer for *20% off*. With Mom's employee
discount, that makes them right affordable. But I had to abstain from
purchase, following my new mantra: *[I'm saving for my
TV](http://www.sonystyle.com/home/item.jsp?itemid=50911&hierc=9685x9800x9801&catid=)...
I'm saving for my TV... I'm saving for my TV...*

 Speaking of TV, I found out there's some sort of strike or lockout or
something going on at the [Port of
Portland](http://www.portofportland.com/POPHOME.HTM) and there's a bunch
of stuff just sitting at the dock not being delivered to the stores.
Now, normally I'd just pass it off with a "that sucks" and call it good,
but I started thinking... [Magnolia Hi-Fi](http://www.magnoliahifi.com)
is waiting for the TV to come in, and the shipment's been delayed... My
TV is probably sitting on the fucking dock, waiting for some stupid
contract negotiation or something to complete. I have a mind to go down
there and start something. **Deliver my TV already.** Damn.

