---
layout: post
title: "Review: The Transporter"
date: 2002-10-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 140
tags: [Media]
---
[*The Transporter*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0293662), frankly, rocked.
 
 I'm not sure there's much more to say on the matter than that.
 
 For those who don't already know, *The Transporter* is an action film
about a guy, Frank Martin (played by [Jason
Statham](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Statham,%20Jason))who used to be in the
military (what action hero *wasn't* in the special forces?) but now has
resorted to a life of crime. He transports packages - of any nature -
from one place to another, no questions asked, guaranteed delivery.
 
 This doesn't sound like the guy is too high up on the criminal ladder,
does it? I mean, the guy's basically a high-priced mule. You know what?
That doesn't matter. From the second you start watching this movie, it's
got you sucked in. I mean, the first five minutes is *all action*. Like
the first chapter of a good book, they've got you hooked and wanting
more.
 
 Anyway, one day Frank Martin gets a request to deliver a package.
Except this time, the package makes a lot of noise... so he breaks his
own rule and opens the package. It's a Chinese girl, Lai, played by [Qi
Shu](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Shu,%20Qi). From there, he gets mixed up
in... well, I won't tell you. Just go see for yourself.
 
 Jason Statham is definitely on my list of badass action stars. He has
more of a gritty street vibe than most action stars, and a more
understated presence; you wouldn't expect this guy to kick your ass, but
by the time you've thought about it, you've already been beaten. I look
forward to seeing his next project.
 
 Qi Shu does a pretty good job, too. She's a lot more integral to the
plot than, say, [your latest Bond
girl](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Pike,%20Rosamund), and she looks great.
I'm not so sure about the character... but you know what? Why analyze
it? It's an *action movie*, and that's what you get - hard action, fast
cars, hot women.
 
 The posters and trailers would lead you to believe that this is
directed by [Luc Besson](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Besson,%20Luc), but
it's not. Besson co-wrote and produced, but another guy, [Corey
Yuen](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Yuen,%20Corey), directed. I wasn't
disappointed - it had the Hong Kong action feel with a twist of Besson
style to it.
 
 Go check it out - I'd say it's worth prime-time prices, but if you
can't afford it, definitely see it on the matinee.
