---
layout: post
title: "A Long December"
date: 2002-10-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 135
tags: [General Ramblings,GeekSpeak]
---
Wednesday was a loooong day for me. I got up at 6:15a, got to work at
7:30a, started doing after-hours server patches at 5:00p, and finally
left work at 1:30a Thursday. I was going to skip out on work Thursday,
but I had a lunch appointment with the CTO, so I came in just in time
for that and worked a half day after lunch.
 
 Let me tell you, I was dragging Thursday.
 
 I found a new thing I need to get: The [Lego *Star Wars* Star
Destroyer](http://www.starwars.com/collecting/news/2002/09/news20020923.html).
Over 3,000 pieces, this thing is three feet long and two feet wide. I
must have it.
 
 The sales guy from [Magnolia](http://www.magnoliahifi.com) called me
today and told me that the floor model of [my
TV](http://www.sonystyle.com/home/item.jsp?itemid=50911&hierc=9685x9800x9801&catid=)
will be in on Sunday, so I should come by then to check it out. It took
long enough, but I'm glad it's finally here. I'll go in and check it
then, and if all looks good (and I can work out a deal for a stand, too
- the stand it comes with is too small to hold all my stuff), I'll get
it. Hell, yeah. Big screen, here I come.
 
 I can't begin to count how many people have sent me this [World's
Funniest Joke
article](http://news.yahoo.com/news?tmpl=story2&cid=573&ncid=757&e=1&u=/nm/20021003/od_nm/life_joke_dc),
but let me tell you: The joke itself really *isn't* the world's funniest
joke. Maybe humor is one of those things that can't be gained by
committee or something. It's a decent joke and whatnot, but it didn't
have me busting a gut or anything. And now you certainly can't tell the
sonofabitch at a party because everyone's heard it. I wonder if, by
declaring the joke "World's Funniest," they've somehow destroyed the
funny part of the joke, thus making it *not* the World's Funniest Joke.
 
 I've got like six different support incidents open with Microsoft right
now, and for some reason, I feel like either Microsoft has a bunch of
blockheaded morons working in its support department or they have a
bunch of support personnel who need some training in comprehension
skills. My favorite current issue is this:
 
 **Installing Internet Explorer 6.0 Service Pack 1 on a [SharePoint
Portal Server](http://www.microsoft.com/sharepoint/portalserver.asp)
will break certain SharePoint Portal Server functionality.**
 
 I know this to be true, just as the sun rises in the east. Tell me if
you think I'm off-base in my thinking. Here's what I did:
 
 I had a perfectly functional SharePoint Portal Server development box.
It had all the latest patches on Windows Update except for Internet
Explorer 6.0 Service Pack 1. (It had IE6, just not the service pack.) I
put IE6 SP1 on the machine. After I did that, the server wouldn't let me
edit items on it that were over a certain length. I got mad and tried to
uninstall the service pack, but that didn't fix it.
 
 I formatted the machine and installed Windows 2000 Server from scratch.
I brought it fully up to date on Windows patches. I installed SharePoint
Portal Server and all of its respective patches. I got everything back
up to snuff - except IE6 SP1 - and it worked. I then installed IE6 SP1
on it and the server stopped working again. "No way," I thought, "could
this be so." I did it *again*.
 
 I formatted the machine *again* and put Windows 2000 Server and
SharePoint Portal Server on it, yadda, yadda, yadda. Got it all together
and it worked fine. Installed IE6 SP1 on the machine - it stopped
working.
 
 Finally rebuilt the box one last time and this time I've not put IE6
SP1 on it. It's working fine.
 
 That feels like pretty conclusive evidence to me that IE6 SP1 breaks
SharePoint Portal Server.
 
 What do I get from Microsoft? "Check and see if all of your servers
have the same hotfixes." Yes, you moron, all of my servers are fully
up-to-date on everything except IE6 SP1. "Is it my understanding that
you have servers on which you don't see this problem?" Look, numbnuts, I
didn't install it on any other servers because *it fucking breaks them*.
So, no, I don't see the problem on any of my servers because I *didn't
install the damn patch*. And, before you ask, ***NO***, I'm not going to
"test it out" on my production machines. You have servers over there,
*you* replicate the motherfucker. I did it twice. I swear to you on all
you believe holy that IE6 SP1 fucks up SharePoint Portal Server. Take
that as gospel and go with it, okay?
 
 I'm getting worked up just thinking about it.
 
 I watched [*Survivor*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/) last
night. Eh. I'm glad they [got rid of that Jed
guy](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/show/episode03/s5story.shtml)
and all, but I am really hoping they get rid of
[Ghandia](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/survivors/bios/ghandia.shtml)
pretty soon. She's got some issues she needs to go home and deal with.
At first, I thought she and
[Ted](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/survivors/bios/ted.shtml)
were going to deal with their little "chemistry" thing on a mature
level, and Ted seemed prepared to do that, but then she went too far and
started a huge rumor mill, blowing the whole thing out of proportion. No
psycho chicks, thank you very much. Vote her ass off.
 
 More than that, though, I want
[Robb](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/survivors/bios/robb.shtml)
voted off. Just because he's a cocky asshole. Enough said on that
issue.
 
 I have to say that I'll be slightly disappointed if and when they vote
[Erin](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/survivors/bios/erin.shtml)
off, though. She's got quite the rack, if I do say so myself. (Even
though she really doesn't stand out in any other way; she doesn't talk
on the camera, she doesn't create controversy... she just sort of fades
into the background. Hey, maybe that's her strategy.)
 
 The [Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com/) are playing Kootenay tonight.
Should be a good game. I've got my jersey on and I'm ready to go.
