---
layout: post
title: "Crazy Train"
date: 2002-05-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 52
tags: [tv,music,medical]
---
[Days Until [Vegas](/archive/2002/04/08/vegas-baby-vegas.aspx): 13]
 
 I'm never the first to jump on a bandwagon. For some reason, I always
find out about cool stuff *after* everyone else has already thought it
was cool. Sometimes I find out about it after everyone thinks it's cool
and then wears it out until it's not cool anymore.
 
 The latest bandwagon I'm late to jump on is
[MTV](http://www.mtv.com/)'s *[The
Osbournes](http://www.mtv.com/onair/osbournes/)*.
 
 For those who, like me, are late to jump on the bandwagon, this is a
[sort of] reality TV show that's basically a camera running around Ozzy
Osbourne's house and filming the daily life of the Osbourne family.
 
 Normally, I'm not into the whole "reality TV" thing. I've watched my
share of *[The Real World](http://www.mtv.com/onair/realworld/)* (which
should actually fall under the "drama" category and be called *The World
No Person With A Normal Income Can Afford*) and *[Road
Rules](http://www.mtv.com/onair/roadrules/)*. I currently watch
*[Survivor](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor4/)* and *[The Amazing
Race](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/amazing_race2/)*. But, for the most
part, I'm not a huge fan.
 
 This *Osbournes* show, though, is probably the funniest thing I've ever
seen. You get to see how Ozzy lives, and you realize that, regardless of
the whole "Prince of Darkness" show that gets put on, he's just a guy
trying to get by. You see how his family bickers (maybe a little more
than most) and the dysfunctional stuff they do to each other. And the
only word you can really, truly understand Ozzy saying is "fuck."
Seriously. When they get the guy on camera, you hear (in an English
accent) something like "mumble mumble fuck mumble fucking mumble
mumble." It's crazy.
 
 Last night I watched an episode where the Osbournes were having
Christmas dinner. Ozzy carved the turkey and cooked some gravy that he
seemed pretty proud of. Too much. Then Ozzy got a James Brown puppet
thing that sings and dances to "I Feel Good" when you press a button on
it. Ozzy wouldn't stop pushing the button. Reminds me of something *my*
dad would do.
 
 The thing about this show is that I don't think it'd be funny if it
wasn't Ozzy. I mean, okay, if you stuck, like, Angus from AC/DC in a
show like this, it would probably be just as funny. Or maybe Alice
Cooper. But, like, watching Eric Clapton's everyday life? Or Billy Joel?
Interesting, maybe, but not nearly as entertaining. The dichotomy of
"Prince of Darkness Rock Star" and "Everyday Guy Trying to Get By" is
what makes the show what it is.
 
 Next week is apparently the last episode in the season. I don't know if
they're going to do another season, but I hope so. In the meantime, I'm
going to have to catch the episodes I haven't seen yet when they rerun
them.
 
 I also went and bought [one of Ozzy's
CDs](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000I576/mhsvortex) since
watching the show got the music into my head. Figures, eh?
 
 On a whole other note, my allergist appointment is today. The
[Allegra](http://www.allegra.com) I got at the general practitioner
isn't working as well as I'd like - it's kept me less congested than
normal, but now my nose runs a lot of the time - so maybe I can get a
different medication. Jenn is liking her
[Claritin](http://www.claritin.com)... maybe that will work for me, too.
Either way, they can't test me for new allergies today even if they want
to because I got the notice *yesterday* that tells me I'm not supposed
to take prescription antihistamines (Allegra) for 72 hours before an
appointment. As if they didn't have *all last week* to tell me that, or
even tell me that when I made the appointment. Oh, well. If I can come
out of there with something to un-stuff my nose and keep it drip-free,
I'll be a happy camper.
 
 And, last (but definitely not least),
[SuperDiamond](http://www.superdiamond.com/), probably my favorite
concert band, will be playing at [The Crystal
Ballroom](http://www.mcmenamins.com/Crystal/index2.html) on [Saturday,
May 11](http://www.mcmenamins.com/Crystal/crysched.html#may). I'm
thinking Jenn and I may just have to go.
