---
layout: post
title: "Irritating Shopping"
date: 2002-11-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 157
tags: [personal]
---
As any reader of this blog knows, I've been waiting *ever so patiently*
for my copy of [*Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000696CZ/mhsvortex) to
show up. When it does, I'm taking a week off work for vacation and *a
bit of the old ultraviolence*. Oh, and to get my cat declawed and fixed.
But that's not the point.

 I went in yesterday to [Amazon.com](http://www.amazon.com) to see why
my order hasn't shipped yet - the game's out, it says it ships in 24
hours, so where the hell is it?

 Turns out, they keep saying that my credit card's being rejected so I
need to enter new credit card information. Odd, since I just made a
purchase at [Barnes and Noble](http://www.bn.com) the day before. So I
re-enter the card information and the site says everything's cool.

 I get an email this morning that says my card's rejected again.
*What?!* So I go back into the Amazon site and it's asking for me to
re-enter the card info again or enter a new card. Fed up, I just entered
the number for a different credit card and things now seem to be rolling
along again... Of course, I'm waiting for the rejection email on that
card, too, but we'll see. Either way, the delivery of my game is now
pushed out until like November 7 - 13, when it should have been here by
this coming Monday.

 I called the credit card company for the card that got rejected twice,
and they don't have any record of my card being rejected. In fact, a
separate order I made at Amazon was *authorized* on that card and they
paid it on the 30th. They don't know what the deal is.

 Regardless, this has put a wrench in my gaming plans. I desperately
need a vacation or I'm going to have some sort of a nervous breakdown,
so just what I needed was another thing to postpone my time off.
Needless to say, I'm pretty irritated.

 I realized late yesterday that I never really tied the [entry
yesterday](/archive/2002/10/31/a-special-joy-in-coffee-black.aspx) to
its title, *A Special Joy in Coffee Black*. Yesterday was one of my few
coffee-drinking days (and of course, [no one filled the fucking
pots](/archive/2002/10/17/life-is-like-a-pot-of-coffee.aspx)) so I was
drowning myself in caffeinated bliss.
