---
layout: post
title: "The Art of War"
date: 2002-09-23 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 128
tags: [personal,gaming,playstation]
---
Friday being Fred Meyer employee double-discount day, a few purchases
were made:

-   [Dremel router
    table](http://www.dremel.com/productdisplay/att_template.asp?SKU=231&Color=99CCFF)
-   [Dremel tile cutting
    kit](http://www.dremel.com/productdisplay/att_template.asp?SKU=566&Color=99CCFF)
-   [*Shanghai
    Noon*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXJ1/mhsvortex)
    on DVD
-   [Toshiba SD-3750 DVD
    player](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005N5XO/mhsvortex)
-   [*Dynasty Warriors
    3*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005RL4E/mhsvortex) for
    PS2

I got the Dremel attachments so that I can finally finish the Mucha
project I've been working on - I need to make a frame for the whole
thing to fit in, and the router will do well for that. (The project is
that I scanned a piece of Mucha work, separated it out into layers, put
each layer on transparency, and I'm putting it all back together again
but with about a half-inch space between each layer. That will give the
piece some nice dimension while still retaining the original beauty. I
saw something similar on our [trip to
Vegas](/archive/2002/05/20/parlez-vous-las-vegas.aspx).)

 *Shanghai Noon*, well... that was just a fun movie, and for 20% off, I
couldn't *not* get it.

 The Toshiba DVD player replaces our old Sony player, which I've had for
like four or five years now. The Sony is a good player, but I think the
sound is starting to go on it because the center channel fades in and
out. I did a test on my amp, but it works fine, so I have to blame the
DVD player. I moved the Sony into our bedroom (where the TV is mono) and
put this new progressive-scan Toshiba in its place in the living room.
It has all sorts of keen features like picture zoom, dialogue enhancing,
and chapter scan, so I couldn't pass it up. For the money, it seemed the
best buy available. At least from Freddy's.

 *Dynasty Warriors 3* is another story entirely.

 As [previously
noted](/archive/2002/09/20/lifelong-swansong-for-yall.aspx), I was in a
dilemma on whether to get *Dynasty Warriors 3* or [*Virtua Fighter
4*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005Y1BG/mhsvortex) from
[Game Crazy](http://www.gamecrazy.com/) with my store credit. Well, I
made the decision to get DW3 so I could play cooperatively with my dad -
father and son against the heathen masses, right?

 So I went back to Game Crazy and they had already sold their copy of
DW3. They didn't have it used *or* new. Which fucking figures. So then I
got all wigged out about it because I had built up my hopes on playing
DW3 on Saturday with my dad, so I ended up getting nothing at all.

 Friday night, thus, I decided to pick it up from Fred Meyer because
there was a special "additional 10% off video games" coupon, so I got
the thing new for 30% off, which is what it would have cost me used.
(And Dad *did* come over on Saturday, and we *did* stomp several hundred
asses.)

 That actually worked out for the best because Saturday we were in
Hollywood Video and I found these coupons for "20% off any used game"
and "\$2 additional trade-in value on any game" at Game Crazy. Hell,
yeah. I went in today, traded in [*The Adventures of Cookie and
Cream*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005B70U/mhsvortex) for
\$8 plus the \$2 coupon (for a total of \$10), and, with the 20% off
coupon, I got *Virtua Fighter 4* for \$4. Not too shabby.

 Why did I trade in *Cookie and Cream*? Poor planning, I think.

 The original idea was to find a game that Jenn and I could play
together cooperatively rather than fight against each other. Jenn
doesn't play PS2 very often, so with my additional practice I usually
end up winning - not to be cocky, that's just the truth. I saw *Cookie
and Cream* and thought, "Problem solved! Here's a game where we both
have to work together to accomplish a common goal!" That was the idea
anyway.

 It turns out, there's a pretty strict time limit in *Cookie and Cream*
during which you have to get several semi-complex puzzles solved. When I
solve puzzles, I see the answer and just go for it. It's sort of like
osmosis - I don't know *how* I solved the puzzle, I just did. Common
sense. For Jenn, she works through it like a math problem and wants to
understand all the steps. (At least, that's what I gather.) Which means
that while we're running under this time limit, I'm saying, "Hey, go
jump over on that button!" And she's more like, "Why do I need to do
that?" Of course, if I take the time to explain the rationale behind it,
we've run out of time, but if I don't explain it, she won't do what
needs to be done.

 **The Plan**: Play a cooperative game where we both work together and
have fun together.

 **The Execution**: I try to strangle Jenn with the controller cord
while she tries to shove her controller up my ass.

 That's why I traded the game in. (Interestingly enough, Jenn asked me
this morning, "Are you sure we're not going to play that again?" Yeah,
I'm sure. It just makes me hate you. And vice versa.)

 In other news, I found a new beverage called
[Fuze](http://www.fuzebev.com/) that I'm liking. It's sort of like
Snapple, but it has more vitamins and stuff in it that's good for you.
Right now I'm drinking the "Grape & Aronia Punch" flavor. It's pretty
good, and I'm not usually one for grape stuff. I bought one of each
flavor to try them all.
