---
layout: post
title: "We're Going To Need Bigger Guns"
date: 2002-03-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 22
tags: [media,movies,toys,music,activities,gaming,playstation]
---
I went to the local [Suncoast](http://www.suncoast.com) store this
weekend and picked up one of the coolest movies ever, [Split
Second](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0105459). My friend Aarron introduced
me to this one. Story of a cop in London, 2008, who lives on anxiety,
coffee, and chocolates. Sort of a low-budget [Blade
Runner](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0083658) deal. "Feeling on edge?"
"YEAH." "Good. Here, have a chocolate."

 I also picked up, while at Suncoast, a red [Tron light
cycle](http://www.necaonline.com/images/TronBlueBike.jpg). They
re-released the Tron toys for the 20th anniversary of the movie. I used
to have one of these (same color and everything) but my mom sold it out
from under me at a garage sale, as she did with all of my
[He-Man](http://www.he-man.org/) figures. I'm still a little bitter over
that (as she's well aware) so I feel vindicated after getting the Tron
light cycle, like I've reclaimed a piece of my lost childhood for \$25.

 The [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com/) lost last night, though
I'm sure they'll make it up in the playoffs. It was disappointing to
watch, especially after they trounced Seattle so harshly just two nights
before. Either way, I came out with an autographed stick because I
contribute to the education fund. Can't complain about that!

 Another total sidetrack - I've decided that, while [Janet
Jackson](http://www.janet-jackson.com/) is *hot*, her hair is definitely
a deal-breaker. For example, her look on the cover of her [*Design of a
Decade*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002G43/mhsvortex)
album is *fabulous* - cute, sorta next-door-girl. But on the [*Velvet
Rope*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000000WEX/mhsvortex)
album, she looks like one of those funky dogs with the dreadlocks. Ick.

 Saturday night I went to see a hypnotist show put on by my mom's
cousin, [Jerry
Harris](http://www.tri-cityherald.com/news/2000/0827/story1.html).
(Yeah, the link is to an article about a county fair; I saw him in a
lounge.) I had seen the show on a home video my grandfather had made,
but seeing it in real life was a totally different experience. I wasn't
too excited to go at the outset, but after seeing the show, I can hardly
wait to go back. It was pretty funny and well executed; if you ever get
the chance to check him out, I highly recommend it.

 Last, but not least, I've been really getting sucked into [Grand Theft
Auto 3](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005O0I2/mhsvortex)
lately. I like it because it's sort of like an interactive gangster
movie, but light on the "movie" part. So far I've driven a lot of people
around, car-bombed a guy, and hijacked a payroll van in it. My stats say
I'm only 9% done with it, which is very cool; I haven't even gotten onto
the other islands yet. I think it's making me a little paranoid, though
- I cruise through the bad part of town now and totally expect to get
carjacked or beaten with a baseball bat. Then again, maybe that's just
because it's *the bad part of town*. Hmmm.
