---
layout: post
title: "Smoke On The Water"
date: 2002-06-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 77
tags: [Homeownership]
---
Last Thursday my entire life was turned upside-down. Let's start from
the beginning and inspect this horrid yet true tale.
 
 **Wednesday, June 19, 2002**
 Jenn and I got a notice on our door that at 12:00p on Thursday the 20th
a company would be in to perform routine cleaning on the gas fireplace
in our apartment. (I think you can already see where this is going.
Humor me.)
 
 **Thursday, June 20, 2002**
 *6:00p* - I arrived home from work. Jenn was on the couch watching TV,
having been home for maybe half an hour to forty-five minutes. As is my
usual routine, I went into the kitchen to wash my thermos. As I set my
thermos in the sink, I noticed some grime on our kitchen counter. It
looked like it might have been some overspray from the frying we had
done the night before but had missed during the cleanup effort. I got a
washcloth out, wet it a bit, and commenced scrubbing. All it did was
smear.
 
 So I got a little bit of dish soap. Still smearing. Finally Jenn came
in with the [Lysol orange cleaning
spray](http://www.homesolutionsnews.com/rbdocs/us/lysol/product_page/productallp.html)
and sprayed down the counter. With a considerable amount of elbow
grease, the counter finally came clean.
 
 Then we noticed the floor.
 
 I can't begin to describe it. It looked like someone had tracked a thin
black paint through the kitchen.
 
 A quick (and then not-so-quick) inspection revealed that there was a
layer of fine soot-like dust covering *everything in our apartment*.
 
 Now, when I say "everything," I mean *everything*. This isn't an
exaggeration. It was on the bookshelves. It was on our new white silk
lampshades. It was on our pictures. It was *in* the frames. It was on -
and in - all of the electronics. It was on the walls. In the carpet. On
the ceiling. On the cat. In the cupboards. *EVERYWHERE*.
 
 The more I saw this, the more I panicked. I was in shock. How do you
even comprehend the level of damage done? This is, well, pretty much
smoke damage.
 
 *6:15p* - Called the apartment "maintenance emergency" pager number and
asked for the assistant manager, Meg Naglee. The pager company, of
course, didn't have a record of her. And, as luck would have it, she's
the only on-site manager-oriented person that Jenn or I knew of; the
apartment manager we were used to dealing with, Stephanie, had recently
resigned. On the fleeting chance it would work, I asked for Stephanie
instead. The pager company *did* have record of Stephanie and rang the
pager.
 
 *6:24p* - Larissa from Richland Terrace called. Apparently, she's the
new owner of Stephanie's pager. I explain the situation in as great a
detail as possible. She said she'd try to page Meg.
 
 *7:09p* - I was on the phone speaking with Larissa when Meg called and
left a message on my voicemail (I don't have call waiting). She didn't
leave a number, but said she'd call back later.
 
 *7:20p* - I called Larissa in an attempt to understand what I should do
about eating since we couldn't prepare any food in our kitchen. She told
us to go out to eat and save the receipt; we could get reimbursed for
it.
 
 *7:30p* - Meg called back. She told us she'd be over at 8:30a on Friday
since there was nothing she could do about the situation Thursday night.
We accepted that and went to dinner.
 
 **Friday, June 21, 2002**
 *8:30a* - Meg arrived to inspect the damages. (I stayed home from work
on Friday to deal with this fiasco.) She took the receipt from the
previous evening's dinner at Izzy's Pizza and looked around. She agreed
that the dust was most insidious. She said that she had left a message
for her boss, but he hadn't called her back yet. She would continue to
try to get ahold of him as well as [All-Ways Warm
Inc.](http://www.allwayswarm.com/), the fireplace company that did the
cleaning. She did mention that All-Ways Warm Inc. wouldn't open until
9:30a. Fine.
 
 *10:00a* - Meg called. She said she would be over at 11:00a with a
representative from All-Ways Warm Inc. She also mentioned she still
hadn't heard from her boss.
 
 *10:08a* - I got a little restless not being able to clean, and daytime
TV sucks, so I called *my* renter's insurance agent, Mariko Locke of
[State Farm](http://www.statefarm.com/), for a little advice. I spoke
with a nice lady there named Christina who told me not to operate
appliances or electronics because it may not be good for them. Oops - I
had already watched TV. I guess I never thought of that. Anyway,
Christina recommended [Dow Columbia](http://www.dowcolumbia.com/), a
local smoke and water damage restoration firm, to me to come in and
clean. I took down their information in preparation for giving it to Meg
and the All-Ways Warm rep.
 
 *11:00a* - Meg arrived at my apartment with Ron Buchholz, the owner of
All-Ways Warm Inc. Ron did (what seemed to me) a *very* light inspection
(everything I showed him seemed to be a surprise to him, so I *still*
don't think he realizes how far this stuff got) and offered the services
of a general cleaning company. I explained that I didn't feel just any
cleaning company would be able to clean things to the level they would
have to be cleaned and requested that Dow Columbia or a comparable smoke
damage restoration firm be contacted to do the job. He said he'd make
some calls and call me back.
 
 *11:15a* - Meg returned to my apartment and gave me the \$20 from the
previous evening's dinner. She recommended that, if I did any cleaning
at all, it should only be as minimal as possible since the cleaning was
the responsibility of All-Ways Warm Inc.
 
 *1:35p* - Meg called. She told me she would call a general cleaning
firm to get the major stuff (countertops, kitchen floor, etc.) and would
get back to me on that. That way Jenn and I could at least live in our
apartment while we looked into getting a smoke damage restoration firm
to do the detail work.
 
 *2:15p* - Meg called. She said that Kay the cleaning lady would arrive
at the apartment between 5:00p and 5:30p. She also said that Dave from a
local carpet cleaning service would be in on Saturday the 22nd at 11:00a
to do the major walkways of our carpets so we wouldn't be tracking the
grime around anymore.
 
 *3:40p* - Meg, Ron, and Ron's assistant, Susan, came over to the
apartment. Susan did all the talking. She offered me the option of
*either* a general cleaning service *or* making me deal with the cleanup
through their insurance and waiting until Monday for a claims adjuster
to come over. I explained again that a general cleaning service would be
inadequate to service the restoration portion of things so accepted the
offer of dealing with it through insurance - the only other option left
open. Susan tried to convince me otherwise, but I continued to attempt
to explain that general cleaning is only part of the solution. They all
left and called off the cleaning service and carpet cleaner that were
supposed to arrive to alleviate some of the pain.
 
 *4:45p* - I attempted to call [Zurich](http://www.zurich.com/), the
insurance company for All-Ways Warm Inc., to see if I could schedule the
appointment with the adjuster. After sitting on hold for *52 minutes*, I
realized this for what it was - Zurich doesn't tell you the company's
closed or that you're calling after business hours, they just put you on
hold until you go away. I was less than pleased.
 
 **Saturday, June 22, 2002**
 *9:20a* - Decided to attempt to call State Farm again to see what they
think I should do now that the weekend was upon us. I spoke to a
representative from their "Good Neighbor" service who was,
unfortunately, unqualified to give me the aforementioned advice. I left
a message there for a more qualified representative to call me.
 
 *9:45a* - Got a call back from a "more qualified representative" at
State Farm who was also unable to provide me with advice. The best she
could offer was to leave a message for my agent to call me on Monday,
which, I explained, would be a little late.
 
 *6:15p* - Went to my friend [Aaron](http://www.proseweb.com/)'s
graduation party. While I was there, I spoke with a friend of my parents
that I have known for a looooong time now. He is a building contractor
and owns apartments, so I asked him for his take on things.
 
 Now, here's where the tables start turning, in my opinion.
 
 He said that the ultimate responsibility for my losses and ensuring
that the apartment is in a livable condition resides with the property
owner. My understanding of how it works is this: The property owner
contracts with a property management company to take care of the
paperwork and dealing directly with tenants. The management company then
subcontracts out certain maintenance tasks, like the cleaning of
fireplaces, to other firms. I, the tenant, have no direct agreement with
any of these subcontractors, so I should never have to deal with them.
Besides which, I have no authority as a tenant to authorize repairs or
restoration on any facilities-related items (walls, carpets, ceilings,
appliances). If the property owner designates the management company as
an authority that can deal with problems, then I deal with the
management company. If not, I deal with the owner. Never do I need to
deal with any maintenance firms.
 
 That put things in a new perspective. What that boiled down to for me
was that, once I established my position with the management company, I
could get the ball rolling *regardless* of what Zurich insurance had to
say, and it was the job of the management company to chase down All-Ways
Warm Inc. and Zurich. Much, much better.
 
 My parents' friend recommended that Jenn and I write a letter stating
our position and our requests, then send it to the property owner, the
management company, and Meg. After that, start calling and get things
running.
 
 **Sunday, June 23, 2002**
 Jenn and I sat down over the course of Sunday and wrote the letter
asking for a restoration firm to come in and deal with things. We also
asked to be reimbursed for meals because we couldn't cook in the
kitchen; a bath and medical inspection for the cat to make sure she's
okay after ingesting all this grime by cleaning herself; reimbursement
for any expenses in the event we have to move out of our apartment
temporarily while the cleaning crew is working; and reimbursement for
any time we would have to miss from work because all this happened.
 
 **Monday, June 24, 2002**
 *9:20a* - I called Meg and told her about the letter and our new
position on things - that the management company should deal with Zurich
and that we would deal with the management company directly. She was
very adamant that Jenn and I "chose to deal with the insurance company
rather than get a cleaning service in." I agreed that we had chosen that
option, being the better of the two options provided to us at the time,
but a third option should have been presented that wasn't - *that* was
the option I was now choosing. I asked her for the main address for [HSC
Real Estate](http://www.hscrealestate.com/), the property management
company in charge of my apartment complex, but she claimed not to have
that information. I also asked for her boss's name and number but she
refused to give me that. I finally asked for the name and contact
information for the apartment complex proper, and she said she didn't
have that information either. I faxed her the letter and began the
research.
 
 *Many phone calls later, between 9:20a and 11:00a...* - I called
several different title companies in the area to find out the owner of
record for the apartment complex. One place gives me the name "Garden
Park Associates," but the address provided turns out to be for the IT
department of a local [Kaiser
Permanente](http://www.kaiserpermanente.org/) building. Weird. Another
place actually ends up researching the taxes on the apartments and it
goes to [Citicorp Vendor Finance Inc.](http://www.theassociates.com/),
which makes more sense to me anyway. I fixed the address on the letter
to be directed to both "Garden Park Associates" (just in case) *and*
Citicorp. Fine.
 
 *11:40a* - Called HSC Real Estate myself, since things are just not
moving along fast enough for me. Left a message for Joe Adrian, the
asset manager in charge of my complex, to find out what his fax number
was and see what his thoughts on the situation were.
 
 *12:26p* - Jenn called Zurich and spoke with Jonnie, an agent there.
Apparently, Zurich *had* a claim filed but *did not* have any of Jenn or
my contact information. How convenient. Jenn provided all the phone
numbers and addresses they needed and Jonnie said they would call us
back.
 
 *2:30p* - Called HSC Real Estate again because no one had called me
back. Got ahold of Joe and told him about our letter. He already had a
copy, faxed to him by Meg. Fine. He, like Meg, was fairly adamant that
Jenn and I had "chosen to deal with Zurich." I pointed out that there
was no way a standard cleaning service would do the job we needed done,
and he would have to agree that were he in my position, he would insist
on full restoration as well. I also insisted that this process was
moving far too slowly for my liking, and put forth the points that I
don't have the authority to deal with any of the facilities-related
restoration, nor did I ever have any contract or contact with All-Ways
Warm Inc. to begin with. I have a contract with HSC, so HSC has to make
good on things. After struggling with this for what I felt was far too
long, Joe finally agreed to have Meg schedule [Horizon
Restoration](http://www.horizonrestoration.com), another local smoke and
water damage restoration firm, to come in and look at the damage. I
agreed that this was, finally, an acceptable solution.
 
 *3:15p* - Meg called and told me that Horizon Restoration would be at
my apartment at 4:00p. I told her that, yes, someone would be home to
greet them. I quickly called Jenn, who was able to leave work to go
speak with them.
 
 *4:00p* - Kitty from Horizon Restoration shows up at the apartment. Meg
wasn't in the office when they stopped by, so they came up to the
apartment by themselves. Fine. After around 45 minutes of inspection,
they explained the depth of the damage to Jenn:
 
 We have to get rid of all of the food we have in cardboard boxes -
cereal, Jell-O, Rice-A-Roni, etc. The soot-dust stuff goes through
cardboard. The lamp shades may or may not be able to be restored. The
pictures and frames will all have to be detailed, though, thankfully,
the dust most likely didn't get behind the glass. All the electronics in
the room will have to be sent out for sonic cleaning. Everything's got
to come down from the walls and moved out of the room and the whole room
has to be dealt with. Everything has to come out of the kitchen
cupboards and be cleaned.
 
 Kitty seemed surprised we were still staying in the apartment, too, in
the condition it was in. When Jenn told me about all that, I felt so...
*vindicated*. Finally, someone who sees the damage that was done for
what it is! Jenn asked Kitty why other apartments hadn't reported such
problems. The answer: "Not many people live as clean as you do." Wow. I
can't even *imagine*. This stuff is pretty darn gross. Living in it is
not even an option to me.
 
 Kitty left and said that she could get a cleaning crew in the apartment
cleaning as soon as 8:30a the next day as long as they got approval from
the apartment complex. She left and headed back down to the office to
speak with Meg about getting things under way.
 
 **Tuesday, June 25, 2002**
 *9:45a* - (Now.) That's where it sits. I'm still waiting to hear back
from either Horizon Restoration or Meg to see when the cleaning company
will be getting to work. I'm going to leave it until noon today. If I
haven't heard anything, I'm gonna start making calls. Things need to get
moving, and they need to get moving *now*.
