---
layout: post
title: "Hypoglycemic"
date: 2002-11-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 174
tags: [food,hockey]
---
I've decided that I'm partially
[hypoglycemic](http://dictionary.reference.com/search?q=hypoglycemia).

 Now, I had a physical a bit ago and the blood work on it came back fine
(yay, me!), and it didn't say anything about that, yadda, yadda, yadda.
But it boils down like this:

 If I eat low-sugar foods, I can survive, but you bet your ass I'm gonna
be grouchy. If I eat a reasonable amount of sugar periodically (like one
of those bite-sized candy bars every four hours or so, something small
but with a jolt in it), I'll be much happier about things.

 It could also mean that I need to figure out how to eat right, but...
nah. Hypoglycemia is the answer. Besides, my mom said that my dad is
legitimately a little hypoglycemic, and that's hereditary, isn't it?

 At the hockey game yesterday, I had a particularly lucid moment where I
thought of various rules that either don't exist or should be changed to
make hockey more exciting. This moment was brought about by the fact
that we got our asses handed to us and I was more than irritated at
that, but the ideas exist nonetheless.

 First, nowhere in the
[rulebook](http://nhl.com/hockeyu/rulebook/index.html), at least,
nowhere I can find, does it say you can't play with two sticks. I think
each player should be entitled to two sticks: one to carry the puck with
and one to beat off the opposing team.

 Second, there *are* rules against kicking other players. Those need to
go.

 Third, the goalies should have electronic collars (like the dogs they
are) that give them a little *zap* if they wander too far away from the
crease. At least, our goalie should. That guy needs to stay in the
fucking net.

 Fourth, if a goalie is a dumbass and lets a goal go that was so stupid
that a spectator could have climbed the glass, ran out onto the ice, and
stopped in plenty of time, then every member of the audience who was
outraged by that goal should be entitled to punch that goalie once after
the game.

 Spearing should be legal.

 It's not a rule (that I can find), but it pretty much seems that the
officials won't get in the middle of a fight until one player hits the
ice. They need to stick to that; don't break it up before it even
starts, I mean, *that's why I'm there*.

 I think those changes should be made immediately. They would greatly
enhance the game... at least for me, having season tickets to a losing
streak.
