---
layout: post
title: "Lifelong Swansong for Y'all"
date: 2002-09-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 127
tags: [tv,gaming,playstation]
---
Yesterday started out great but long about 4:00p turned into the *$2
sucky-sucky*.

 I've been getting up early lately since Jenn's gone back to school to
become a pharmacy technician and her classes start early. That's not too
bad, since getting up 15 minutes earlier means I'm on the road 15
minutes earlier, which, therefore, also means that I beat the bad
traffic I normally hit when I leave at my normal time.

 Around noon I took off to go to the local [Game
Crazy](http://www.gamecrazy.com/) to sell back a couple of PS2
controllers. There wasn't anything *functionally wrong* with them, but
the pad that sat on top of the left analog stick wasn't glued down
anymore and would spin around while you moved the stick. I can't handle
that. It doesn't bug Jenn, but my thumb just seems to slip off if that's
the case. So I traded in the two controllers for a total of $18 of
store credit. That's a good portion of the cost of a used game, so I
started looking at those. I narrowed the decision down to [Dynasty
Warriors 3](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005RL4E/mhsvortex)
or [Virtua Fighter
4](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005Y1BG/mhsvortex). I'm
still sort of torn, but I'm thinking I'll go with DW3. I already have
[Dead or Alive
2](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00004YRVW/mhsvortex) for a
fighting game, and while I wouldn't mind picking up VF4, I think I
should get something Jenn and I can play *cooperatively* so there's less
of a competition going on. Besides, my dad loves the DW thing, so he'll
come over and play.

 Then around 4:00p, I decided to try to do some work on an upcoming
project - you know, to maybe get a head start. So I opened up [Office XP
Developer](http://msdn.microsoft.com/library/default.asp?url=/library/en-us/modcore/html/deoriMicrosoftOffice2002Developer.asp)
and... it wouldn't open my project file. I know it was a valid project,
because I created the framework for it, then closed it. Done. But now it
gives this "Store Type Not Valid" message which means pretty much *jack
squat* as far as I'm concerned.

 I figured it was maybe a problem with the Office XP Developer program,
so I uninstalled it and reinstalled it. No go. So I uninstalled and
reinstalled again. Still no go. Noticed that there were some patches
available for it, so I patched it. Uh uh. Tried to uninstall again, but
this time it wouldn't uninstall. Tried to do the "reinstall/repair"
thing, that didn't work either. Decided maybe I could just delete the
thing manually then run the repair, so I deleted the files and registry
keys for it and ran the repair utility... and it failed.

 Something was definitely hosed on my laptop, so now I'm in the process
of totally reinstalling Windows and all my apps. Crap.

 I did, however, get [my records from
GEMM](/archive/2002/09/11/global-electronic-music-marketplace.aspx), and
I'm stoked. I've been listening to PWEI remixes all morning long (on my
*good* computer). Yay, me.

 Today is [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) employee
double-discount day. That means Fred Meyer employees (my mom) and their
families (me) get 20% off everything in the store but food. I'm going to
pick up some attachments for my [Dremel](http://www.dremel.com) tool and
a new DVD player since ours is, I believe, heading out the door. (The
sound on it is sort of dicey anymore; the center channel fades in and
out.)

 I still haven't heard from [Magnolia
Hi-Fi](http://www.magnoliahifi.com/) on the [television I am planning on
purchasing](http://www.sonystyle.com/home/item.jsp?itemid=50911&hierc=9685x9800x9801&catid=),
but hopefully I will soon. I may give them a call today and see if it's
in and they just forgot to call me.

 Went to my parents' house to watch
[*Survivor*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor5/) last night, and
let me say I was a little less than impressed. Maybe the show isn't
living up to the hype, or maybe I'm just burned out on it. Either way, I
guess I expected a little *something more* but I didn't quite get it. I
don't know exactly what I was hoping for, but whatever it was, it wasn't
there. Hopefully it'll get better.
