---
layout: post
title: "Nothing Doing"
date: 2002-11-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 171
tags: [gaming,playstation,movies]
---
...Or maybe "doing nothing."

 It's a slow day at the office today. I'm not complaining about that,
because normally there's so much going on that I can't focus (which
isn't good - I can be doing something then just *freeze* and forget what
I was in the middle of). Today, though, there's not a lot, and that's
just fine. I'm sure it's because folks are going places for the
Thanksgiving holiday and aren't in the office.

 Next week's going to be worse, since I only took Thanksgiving Thursday
off and am in the office the rest of the week; the other guys in my
department are out all next week for the most part. On Friday, I'm the
only person scheduled to be in. That sort of means I'm going to have to
answer the help desk phone... but it doesn't mean that I actually have
to *help*. Hey, man, *I'm* not desktop support - I just answer the
phone, and only when I have to.

 [A while back I bought a soft dance pad for *Dance Dance
Revolution*](/archive/2002/04/25/dancin-machine.aspx). I started
playing, and I have to say, I have a lot of fun with it. I did find a
few drawbacks to the soft pad, though - it scoots around on the carpet
while you're dancing; it's not terribly sensitive (or it's sensitive at
the wrong time); and you can't really feel the buttons, so your feet
sort of "migrate" around on the pad and eventually you're pressing the
wrong buttons.

 Well, I found a new pad that I need: [The Dance Revolution Metal
Evolution Pad](http://www.buynshop.com/productinfophp3/VG-DDR-MPD). It's
a metal pad with the arcade dimensions (so it's bigger than the pad I
currently have, I think), weighs 35 pounds (so it won't slide around)
and is made of *metal* so it's durable. It also costs $150, so I don't
think I'll be ordering one instantly, but it's something I'll be
thinking about. DDR's a great workout and it's a lot of fun. I'd like to
think that the only reason I don't play much lately is that I get
frustrated with the pad.

 On occasion I go look at [YouBored.com](http://www.youbored.com), a
local site that sometimes has contests where you can win passes to
advance screenings of movies. A while back, [I applied (in vain) to be
their new movie reviewer](/archive/2002/09/30/a-work-of-art.aspx). Since
I didn't get picked, I occasionally read the reviews published by the
guy they did pick.

 The guy they picked, I have decided, is a complete moron. He writes
reviews like every other stupid critic out there - with no sensitivity
to the entertainment that a movie provides. All that matters is the art,
right?

 His latest folly is his review of *Harry Potter and the Chamber of
Secrets*. I'm not even going to link it up for you because it's not
worth the time to read. Basically, he gave it a "B-" because - and I
quote - "the story gets lost in the effects, and the script aims too low
to hit even its target age group."

 Huh? Did the guy forget that it's a *kid's movie* based on a *kid's
book*? Or that it's about *magic*, so the effects sort of have to be
big? What's he looking for?

 To put it in context, he gave *8 Mile* a "B," whereas anyone I talk to
who's seen it says it sucks ass.

 Okay, I'm done ranting about that.

 I should probably get back to work. I'm reading [this book about
ASP.NET](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0735612870/mhsvortex)
that is, uh... exciting. I think.
