---
layout: post
title: "Cirque Rocks!"
date: 2002-06-17 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 73
tags: [activities,movies,music,gaming,playstation]
---
Jenn and I saw the [Cirque du Soleil](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/)
show,
*[Dralion](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/shows/touring/dralion)*,
on Friday night and it was *fantastic*. The music was beautiful, the
stage effects were great, and the performers were wonderful.

 Thinking about it, though, I really don't know how to *describe* it. If
you've never *seen* a Cirque show, you really won't understand what it's
*like*. Sort of like saying something tastes like chicken - if a
person's never had chicken, what does chicken taste like?

 For the people who *have* seen a Cirque show, this will make more
sense.

 The feel of *Dralion* is very Asian. While the other Cirque shows I've
seen have a distinct French feel to them, the art, costumes, and music
on this one have a very Oriental spin, and it was a Good Thing. There
were also several acts in *Dralion* that I haven't seen in the other
shows, like the [Ballet On
Lights](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/shows/touring/dralion_t/ballet.htm)
and the [Aerial Pas de
Deux](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/shows/touring/dralion_t/aerial.htm).
The clowns in the other shows I've seen were not "clowns" so much as
"funny creatures;" the [clowns in
*Dralion*](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/shows/touring/dralion_t/clowns.htm)
were actually human, resembling... well, Drunk Italians. I'm not sure
how that fit in, exactly, but they were very funny.

 Anyway, it was an excellent show, and anyone interested in a wonderful
night out should definitely consider this show. Beauty beyond
description.

 We also saw *[The Bourne Identity](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0258463)*
this weekend and it was very cool. I'll try to fix up a review on it a
little later.

 I got my copy of *[Real
Genius](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000065U1Q/mhsvortex)*
this weekend - *finally* - and got to watch it on Sunday afternoon. It
was just as good as I remembered it, but I was disappointed by the lack
of *any* special features. The sound was just Dolby Surround, not Dolby
Digital or anything like that; there were trailers on the disc but *not
for the movie*; and there was no commentary, behind-the-scenes
featurettes, or any other special features. You get the movie, trailers
to *Hook* and *Jumanji*, and that's it. I suppose for what it is, that's
okay, but it would have been nice to see more to it.

 I redid our hallway and it now contains all of my *[Fifth
Element](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0800195175/mhsvortex)*
posters and merchandise. It looks nice in there. So that's one more area
of the place down. Next stop, the dining room. It's totally a holding
area for our extra stuff, and it needs to be cleaned out and
redecorated. We're going with a
*[Buffy](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0118276)* theme in there.

 Finally got a chance to listen to the new *[Dirty
Vegas](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000066HP6/mhsvortex)*
album and I was honestly less than impressed. It was okay, but it didn't
really stick in my head like the song normally does from the Mitsubishi
Eclipse commercial. I did, however, find that the [Kylie
Minogue](http://www.kylie.com) album,
*[Fever](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005Y228/mhsvortex)*,
does stick in my head, so I may pick that up. Doesn't hurt that she's a
little hottie.

 Oh, and I got *way* too pissed off at the PS2 game *[Devil May
Cry](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005NCCR/mhsvortex)*.
**WAY** too pissed off. There's something that doesn't click between my
brain, my fingers, and the way the camera moves in that game. Try as I
might, it was just too damn difficult. So I packed it up, strategy guide
and all, and have sold it to a guy here at work for $25. Maybe I got
ripped off; maybe I just wanted free of it. It looked brilliant, the
idea was great, I just sucked at the game and couldn't take it anymore.
I'm gonna take the $25 and reinvest it in *[Medal of Honor:
Frontline](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005V6BB/mhsvortex)*.
I played the demo of that this weekend and loved every second of it. Of
course, the demo had a time limit on it, so I would get like halfway
through the first mission and it would time out on me... so now it's
time to play for real.
