---
layout: post
title: "A Shamanic Anarchistic Archaic Revival"
date: 2002-09-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 119
tags: [blog,music]
---
The longer I do this whole "blog" thing, the more I realize several
things:
1.  I can type what I'm thinking faster than I can write it
2.  I can write what I'm thinking faster than I can say it
3.  I think more clearly in my head than I am able to convey in a verbal
    fashion, yet
4.  I seem to be reasonably able to put down what I'm thinking in a
    written format

The reason I think this is somewhat important is my ongoing nagging at
how much better and more well-rounded this whole blog would be if I had
a voice-activated recorder. I'm beginning to think that's almost
entirely incorrect for many reasons, the least of which is probably that
I would be too damn lazy to actually *transcribe* the ramblings of the
voice on the tape. I am given to this because I've tried lately to use
my [iPaq PocketPC](http://www.pocketpc.com) to record my thoughts while
driving, and later when I sit and listen to the recordings I realize not
only how stupid I must sound to those of you out there, but also that
the complete, coherent thought that I believed I was capturing - once
transferred to audio - became utter trash.

 Which leads me to believe that my lack of interaction with others on a
personal level during my workday is starting to contribute to a sort of
*verbal atrophy*. Eventually my entire vocabulary on an audible basis
will consist of base grunts and vast hand gestures, all entirely
incomprehensible.

 I thought about that yesterday. Continuing that thought process, I
started getting sort of philosophical with myself about the destiny of
the human race, the end of the world, and the origin of the universe.
(Keep in mind the entire thought process lasted only around 30 minutes,
or the length of my commute from home to work.) I wonder if all humanity
will migrate towards a more visual means of communication (a la the
World Wide Web) based on the increased usage of such means of
communication in these latter days.

 Around the end of my commute, I finally realized that the whole thought
process *Re: Evolution* was most likely spawned by the fact I was
listening to the Shamen album, [*Boss
Drum*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000028RH/mhsvortex),
most of which is sort of a mystical wandering about the metaphysical. On
the forefront, the songs themselves sound fairly commercial and
pretentious, but if you're not paying attention, it'll suck you in.

 Speaking of which, whatever happened to The Shamen? I mean, they had
that
[*En-Tact*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000284T/mhsvortex)
album with the single *Move Any Mountain* on it, then *Boss Drum*,
then...? They sort of fell out of the spotlight. Looking at their CD
listing on Amazon, it looks like they had a couple more albums since
then, but what happened?

 That sort of reminds me of my other train of thought yesterday. I've
started to realize that my world view is just slightly *me-centric*.
Okay, maybe more than slightly, but that's not the point here. The point
is, when I'm "into" something, I somehow just assume that thing is
popular. When I'm not into it, I assume it's not (or no longer) popular.
I guess the question that leads is: Do I get into (and, subsequently
*out of*) something *because* of its relative popularity level at the
time, or do I make these self-centered views and then impose them on the
world? I suppose another option there is that I get into and/or out of
things on their respective *popularity cusps* - I get into something I
think is cool, and simultaneously several other people get into that
same thing and, by proxy, it *becomes* cool. The same process in reverse
for things becoming *uncool*.

 I suppose that's something to ponder on. From a philosophical
standpoint, I guess that, pending on the outcome of that thought
process, I may find that I, too, am merely a sheep manipulated by the
media and its agents. Then again, I may decide that I, myself, am an
agent of said media and perform my own manipulations on others. Somehow
I think it's probably a good combination of the two.

 Topic change: I've got sneak preview tickets for tonight's showing of
[*Stealing Harvard*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0265808), which looks like
a pretty dumb movie, but since it's free I guess I'll go. I hope it's
good. I don't feel like [Tom
Green](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Green,+Tom+(III)) can carry a movie on
his own, though, so I think I'm going to be hard-pressed to like it.
Maybe if I go in with reduced expectations I can emerge from the theater
pleasantly surprised.
