---
layout: post
title: "Domino Time"
date: 2002-09-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 122
tags: [books]
---
I'm reading this book
[*Nymphomation*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0552999067/mhsvortex)
by Jeff Noon, and I must say I'm sucked in.

 I'm not sure what it is about Noon's writing that gets me. Honestly,
the first time I read his stuff, I was irritated that it was so
confusing and difficult. He writes in sort of a weird, future dialect.
He uses words that aren't really even words... or he'll use words in
different contexts, making adjectives into nouns (in the book, a "puny"
is a form of currency). It's sort of hard to follow until you really
immerse yourself in it and almost start thinking like you're part of the
culture he's writing about. Then it somehow just makes sense.

 I got sucked in by
[*Vurt*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0312141440/mhsvortex),
which is a book I think everyone should read because it's just so cool,
and then
[*Pollen*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0517599902/mhsvortex),
the sequel to *Vurt*. My understanding is that *Nymphomation* is sort of
a prequel to *Vurt*. I know they've already referred to stuff in
*Nymphomation* that has a certain significance in *Vurt*, and I'm only
about 80 pages in, so I'll have to assume that it is, in fact, a
prequel.

 I'm thinking the whole *Vurt* thing would make a good movie, but it
would have to be directed by [Terry
Gilliam](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Gilliam,+Terry). I can't imagine it
otherwise. Very British, and very fucked up.

 Speaking of Terry Gilliam, I see in his filmography on IMDb that he's
[making a movie](http://us.imdb.com/WN?20001024#9) of [*Good
Omens*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0441003257/mhsvortex), a
favorite book of mine. Hopefully he can do it justice, but, thinking
about it, that sort of book seems perfectly fit to him. I'm looking
forward to seeing it.

 Jenn and I are going to have a garage sale at my parents' house this
Saturday, so we're going over there tonight to help set things up, price
items, and get things ready. Tomorrow night is Jenn's high school
reunion, so we have to finish it all tonight. I'm sort of used to the
garage sale ritual - I've done it a bazillion times before. Hopefully we
can just get rid of some of our stuff we don't want and maybe make some
money at the same time. If you're in the area, stop in and buy
something.
