---
layout: post
title: "New Science: Magnetic Rain"
date: 2002-07-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 87
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I called the [Portland Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) office
this morning and paid for the remaining balance on my two front-row
season tickets. \$468 each! Unbelieveable. I suppose I'd be really
hurting if they were NHL tickets. Oh, well. Jenn and I have a ton of fun
at the Hawks games, so it's worth it. Besides, it keeps me out of
trouble. I think.
 
 Plus, I sit next to this guy, Jerry, and his wife Deona (I think that's
how you spell it) at the games. Jerry's a kick in the pants. This guy
has so many screwed up stories. My favorite one is the one where he sets
himself on fire while cleaning out his motor home. Too much.
 
 This weekend I realized, yet again, that I really need one of those
voice-activated recorders so I can just say what I'm thinking and later
transcribe it into blog form. Better still, play it back to voice
recognition software and have the software transcribe it for me. Then I
could go back and just proof it. See, I think most of my more "deep"
(reads: entertaining) thoughts occur while I'm in the car, in the
shower, taking a leak, etc., because I'm just zoning out. The blog
misses out on those because I've forgotten them by the time I'm done
doing whatever it is I was doing.
 
 For example: I have noticed from my past experience that if you wear
glasses out in the rain, regardless of how you orient your head or
attempt to cover your glasses, the rain will *always* get on them.
Always. This leads me to believe that water droplets and plastic lenses
must have some sort of magnetic attraction to each other. If we could
somehow *harness* the magnetism between water droplets and plastic
lenses, we'd have abundant free, clean energy. I'm still working on how
to do that. Keep watch for it in the news; I'm sure I'll figure it out
soon.
 
 Then again, I realize too that if I had one of those voice recorder
things then the blog would not only probably be *waaaaay* more random,
but it would also have a lot more cussing in it. Maybe it would read
like an Eddie Murphy sketch? I dunno.
 
 I'm reading the book [*The Bourne
Identity*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553260111/mhsvortex)
by Robert Ludlum because I really enjoyed [the
movie](http://www.thebourneidentity.com) and my friend Brad from work
(who was in the theater at the same time I was) mentioned that the book
was really good. So, anyway, I'm reading this book and am realizing that
the movie is almost a *completely different story* than the book. I
mean, the names of the characters are the same (so far as I can tell;
I'm not too far into the book) and the general plotline is roughly the
same, but other than that... woo! Not even close. The book has so much
that the movie just sort of skipped over, it's amazing.
 
 That said, I really did enjoy the movie. I'm glad I saw it before
reading the book, but I'll probably get it when it comes out on DVD.
 
 Oh, and I watched [*Iron
Monkey*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005V1Y2/mhsvortex)
again this weekend - the first movie we've watched since we got the DVD
player back from being cleaned. Something about Kung Fu movies makes me
want to watch more Kung Fu movies. Like a slow growing, subtle
addiction. Spy movies make me feel the same - if I watch a spy movie, I
feel compelled to watch more spy movies. I go through month-or-two long
stints where I'll binge on spy movies, slow that down, slip in a Kung Fu
movie, then binge on Kung Fu. I wonder why that is...
