---
layout: post
title: "Costume Party"
date: 2002-11-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 159
tags: [personal]
---
[![Alias
poster]({{ site.url }}/images/20021104aliasposter.jpg)](http://www.ricksmovie.com/alai01-901_a1000-page.html)Okay,
before I get into this weekend, let me state for the record that I found
[another poster that I need to
get](http://www.ricksmovie.com/alai01-901_a1000-page.html). I don't know
where I'd put it; I don't have anywhere available in my apartment. But
it calls to me. It says, "Buy me! Buy me!" It does this with unrelenting
intensity.

 Thus far, I have successfully exercised my will against it. I'm not
sure how long I can hold out.

 This weekend, Jenn and I went to a costume party. I went as a ninja;
Jenn went as [Mary Katherine
Gallagher](http://shop.store.yahoo.com/halloweenexpo/markatgalcos.html).
Her costume was way better than mine, I think, but only because I [ended
up making my costume out of a sweat
suit](/archive/2002/10/14/not-enough-time.aspx).

 The party itself was very cool. There were probably 15 people over at
my friend Jason's house playing pool and air hockey and generally having
a good time. Great food, too, which I've come to expect at Jason's
parties. He and his wife, Tracy, really know how to kick it up.

 Other costumes at the party include: a Musketeer, two medieval ladies,
a whole herd of army soldiers, and an [Oompa
Loompa](http://www.oompa-loompas.net/). I was particularly pleased with
the Oompa Loompa costume as it probably held the most
childhood-memory-value of all of them. (Besides the fact that [the
movie](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005QJEF/mhsvortex) was
great, I dated a girl 4'4" tall a while ago and tried to get her to
dress up as an Oompa Loompa, but she absolutely refused. I thought it
would have been a great costume. Oh, well. It was reasonably cathartic
when one of the partygoers showed up as an Oompa Loompa.)

 [I'm a still irritated with
Amazon.](/archive/2002/11/01/irritating-shopping.aspx) I picked up my
email today to find that they *rejected my credit card again*. I've
tried two different cards, both of which have been rejected. I called
the respective credit card companies and found that the cards haven't
even been *tried*. **Argh.** So I went to contact Amazon to find out
what's going on, but you can only *email them*, you can't *call them*. I
emailed them, now I have to wait up to 24 hours so that they can tell me
(I'm sure) that they don't know what the damn problem is and I should
call the credit card company.

 The irony is, you know the card that they keep rejecting? Yeah, well,
on *Saturday* they successfully billed that card and shipped a *whole
other order* I had placed with them. So I *know* the card's good. It's
their stupid software. Bitches.
