---
layout: post
title: "It's Always Something"
date: 2002-08-05 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 101
tags: [blog,activities,movies,music]
---
Yet another frickin' typical Monday morning.

 I tried to add my blog entry around 9:00a to find that the scripts that
I use for administration of the blog are now getting "Internal Server
Error \#500" when you try to run them. So are all of my other scripts.
Looking at the error log for the web server, it's saying something about
"premature end of headers" (now doesn't *that* sound dirty). Interesting
that this would work on Friday and not work today. I sent a note to the
support people at PSU to see if they did anything. By the time this
becomes readable for folks on the web site, I'll have (hopefully) fixed
the problem (or gotten them to fix it).

 The weekend was action packed. Friday night Jenn and I went to an
"Escaping Party" for a friend of mine from [Lattice
Semiconductor](http://www.latticesemi.com). Apparently she's going to
Guatemala for five weeks to volunteer and go to school simultaneously.
It was good to see her again, but I've been out of that loop for quite
some time now so I knew probaby five of the 40 people there. That got a
little tiresome. I'm not really a *mingler* so small talk with strangers
doesn't do much for me. At least I got out, which is something I promise
myself I'll do but never quite get around to.

 Saturday we washed my car (*ooooooo*) and watched part of [*So I
Married An Axe
Murderer*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000IQBW/mhsvortex)
at my parents' house (*aaaaaaaah*). For the most part it was a kick-back
day and I enjoyed that portion of it because I like days when I don't
*have* to do anything. I can do stuff if I *want* to, but I don't *have*
to do anything.

 Oh, we also rented [*Resident
Evil*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JL3A/mhsvortex),
[*Shallow
Hal*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JKLQ/mhsvortex), and
[*Amélie*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000640VO/mhsvortex).

 *Resident Evil*, for a video-game-based movie, was decent. Don't look
for a real deep plot or anything, but it was entertaining and, might I
add, better than most of the other video game movies out there. [Milla
Jovovich](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Jovovich,+Milla) did a good job as an
amnesiac soldier attempting to stop the spread of a virus that turns
people into zombies. Of course, they left it totally open for [the
sequel](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0318627), which I expected and will
probably see when it's out on video, too.

 *Shallow Hal* was funny, but I guess I expected it to be funnier. The
idea was there, the material was good to go, but I found this one to be
more of a light romantic comedy than a rolling-in-the-aisles sort of
thing. [Jack Black](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Black,+Jack+(I)) always
cracks me up with his [Chris
Farley-esque](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Farley,+Chris) comedy (though you
really can't beat Chris) and [Jason
Alexander](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Alexander,+Jason) is pretty funny as
his friend. But other than that, nothing too spectacular here. If you're
bored and just want something light, this was pretty decent.

 *Amélie* is another story entirely.

 I loved *Amélie*. Maybe it's my recently reinstilled love of French
art. Maybe it's the way the camera angles and the dialogue was so much
different (and much more fresh) than the other movies I go see. Maybe
it's the story with its lovable, idiosyncratic characters. Probably all
three. But it was darn good, and I'd recommend it to anyone willing to
give it a chance.

 [Audrey Tautou](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Tautou,+Audrey) as the title
character was perfect. She has a very cute, pert, *French* look about
her that just makes her totally adorable and lends itself to the
character.

 Anyway, I could go on and on about the weird stuff that was there or
how cute certain scenes were or whatever, but I'll just leave it with
this - it's one you don't want to miss.

 Sunday Jenn and I went to [Oak's Park](http://www.oakspark.com) for the
company picnic. (Actually, it was just the picnic for the group I work
for, not the whole company.) It was odd weather, raining for a few
minutes then sunny for a while and raining again. It was fun to ride the
bumper cars and go-carts, though. Since a lot of people said they were
coming but didn't show up, there were extra go-cart tickets so Jenn and
I got to go twice. Can't complain about that.

 Mom got a [Tori Amos](http://www.toriamos.com/) CD for me at a [Fred
Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) sample sale, so I was listening to that
this morning. The CD in question is the one titled [*Strange Little
Girls*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005NKYQ/mhsvortex).

 Let it be known now that Tori Amos is *fucked up*.

 I used to love her stuff. I bought [*Little
Earthquakes*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000J5ZM/mhsvortex)
when it came out. I thought that, not only did it display well the
talent she has, but it also made some good statements about who she is.
It made you feel what she was feeling and sort of, for me, embodied how
the youth of the time were feeling - a little confused with just a bit
of that gothic sort of darkness going on.

 I also bought [*Under The
Pink*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002IXU/mhsvortex),
though, admittedly, that one had to grow on me a bit. She was starting
into this bitter hate phase of hers and I'm more of a "subtle pain" than
a "bitter hate" person. But I still dug her. I went to see her live for
her *Under The Pink* tour.

 Then came [*Boys For
Pele*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002J88/mhsvortex) and
[*From The Choirgirl
Hotel*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000062S6/mhsvortex) and
the hate was on. Admittedly, I didn't get much past *Pele* since I just
couldn't stand the whole hate thing, so I can't give an entirely
informed opinion on *Choirgirl*. But the hate-on was a-happenin', and I
wasn't into it. I did, however, see her live again when she came around
for *Pele*. She put on a good show and, while I wasn't as into it this
time as I was the first, it was still a good show.

 I saw her a third time in concert after *Choirgirl*, though I can't
really remember exactly when. This time, though, the show had lost its
magic. She didn't have the repoire with the audience she had with *Under
The Pink* and, honestly, I was bored because the songs all started to
sound the same. I promised myself I wouldn't go see her again because it
was a waste of \$40. But I didn't give up on her music; I thought she
still had some promise.

 Then I get *Strange Little Girls*. This should have been called *Bad
Cover Songs* becuase it seems that most of the songs are covers of songs
from other bands. When I heard her *butcher* the Depeche Mode song
"Enjoy The Silence," I got mad and started listening to the first few
bars of each track. Seems to me the edge is lost, or at least dulled,
for her. She used to have this way of getting all the music to work
together, to provide a rich tapestry of music that, coupled with her
unique voice, helped you feel what she felt. Every once in a while,
you'd get a sort of "haunting" track that was more like a cappella or
spoken word where you'd feel that song, in stark contrast to the rest of
the album, and the powerful emotion that went along with it.

 Now she abuses that "stark contrast" thing so there's no contrast at
all anymore. She tries too hard to get the hate and the pain in there
and forgets that it's *music* she's making and not some lame
*performance art*.

 So that's that. The close of another chapter of my musical life.

 Okay, then.

 Friday Mom sort of sideswiped me this weekend with the fact she wants
me to film my sister Tai's wedding reception this coming Friday. (Yeah,
that's a week's notice.) So I got the video camera from her and took it
home to play with it.

 While filming my cats doing basically nothing (figures that they'd be
*wired* when I didn't have the camera out, but when I pull it out they
instantly become lethargic; maybe I should have a camera out all the
time), I realized something:

 I *hate* it when people making home movies offer commentary during the
movie.

 How many times have you watched someone's video of, say, a birthday
party, where the person filming is watching someone blow out candles on
the cake, and the person filming offers some flimsy commentary like,
"Okay, the cake is here... now they're setting it down... and she's
going to blow out the candles... There we go! The candles are out!"

 What, like I can't *see* that? Is that commentary for the blind people
trying to watch your home movie? Somehow I think the blind people are
the *lucky ones* in that regard since they don't have to watch some
video they don't care about, but that's another issue.

 I think that's also why I *hate Bob Saget*. Shut the fuck up, buddy.
I'm trying to watch some of America's Funniest Home Videos. I *so* don't
need to listen to you while I do it.

 The point here is that since I discovered that, I believe that I'm
going to do my best to refrain from talking while I'm filming since that
can only lead me to being a hypocritical dumbass.

 Well, I just got an email from the support people at PSU CS and
apparently something's hosed with their server configuration. They've
found a temporary fix, though, and hopefully they'll root out the whole
problem shortly. In the meantime, I'd best post this before things go
down again.
