---
layout: post
title: "Bad Day"
date: 2002-10-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 142
tags: [personal]
---
My bad day today actually started yesterday when our email server went
down due to some funky computer policy crap that went on. That part
wasn't my problem, but the fact that I *formatted and reinstalled*
everything on my desktop computer on the very day when all the network
trauma was going on means that I only had problem after problem getting
things to work properly.

 My bad day continued today, when all sorts of crap went on. Jenn
sometimes pings me during the day via email to see how my day is going.
I figured I'd let you all in on the email today so you can see what goes
on *backstage*, as it were.

> Fuck my day. Fuck it up its stupid ass. Everything has gone wrong
> today. My extranet server won't send notifications to people when it's
> supposed to. I don't know why; had to open a support call for that.
> Another of my support calls came back and told me that, basically, I
> have a lot of work to do in order to rewrite this program I'm working
> on and make it work properly. I gotta have that in to those guys ASAP
> so they can continue their work. I've got people showing up asking for
> tutorials on how to do really simple shit and people so anxious for
> the intranet to roll out that they're riding my back for it even
> though I told them it's not going to be ready for at least A MONTH.
> I've got shit to update on some forms that need to go production on
> our extranet site (the same site that's all fucked up with the
> subscription notifications thing) but have to play police and ride
> people for input on them, even though the forms are THEIRS. I have to
> fight Microsoft Support to give me files that they say on their web
> site all you have to do is ask for - now they want me to justify WHY.
> Everything I'm working on is priority one, and nothing is getting done
> because I can't finish one thing before starting another.

So, there you have it. I've been running around today sort of in this
[*Age Affected Attention Deficit
Disorder*](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/pwasoh/message/937) haze, doing
lots of stuff but getting nothing done.

 My baby, however, has gotten some rather high marks on the latest unit
in her Pharmacy Technician training program - **96%**! That's pretty
good, if I do say so myself. I am very proud.

 Another positive item of note: My friend Gerb found this web site that
reminded him of me. I read it, and it reminded *me* of me. I couldn't
have written it up better myself. [What do you
think?](http://www.fleetmack.com/~maddox/irule.html)
