---
layout: post
title: "San Pellegrino"
date: 2003-02-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 222
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
After my [CompUSA fiasco on Friday](/archive/2003/02/21/cockusa.aspx), I
decided to do two follow-up actions to find a decent beverage for
consumption at work.
 
 First, I gave in to the possibility that the other CompUSA in town
might actually carry [Bawls Guarana](http://www.bawls.com/). With that
in mind, we made the harried trip to Jantzen Beach where the other
CompUSA is.
 
 Jantzen Beach was, at one time, a happening shopping district. Near the
airport and right next to a major freeway, it's still got a lot of
traffic pouring through. Neither the shops nor the City Planner really
kept up with the change in the times, though. The whole place is more...
industrial... than anything anymore. Huge warehouse style stores rather
than any mall of any nature. And the traffic... damn. It's ridiculous
how the traffic pushes through there. It's a nightmare.
 
 So I braved the traffic and made it to CompUSA so they could tell me
that they *do* still carry it, but they've had 75 cases on order for a
month now and they just aren't showing up. That figures.
 
 Now what? If I can't have Bawls Guarana, what do I need?
 
 The answer lies in [San Pellegrino](http://www.sanpellegrino.it).
 
 Back when I used to have a job in an actual urban center, downtown
Portland, my friends and I would frequent a little deli that had some
less common beverages to try. During that time, I got totally hooked on
San Pellegrino *Limonata*.
 
 Basically sparkling lemonade, Limonata has this certain *something*
that makes it so I want to drink it all day. It's really good. (Jenn
doesn't like it as much as I do, but that's just too bad for her.)
 
 Thus ensued a trip to [Cost Plus](http://www.costplus.com).
 
 Cost Plus has Limonata for significantly cheaper than any other store
locally that stocks it. Seriously, like \$1 cheaper per six pack. They
also carry other interesting San Pellegrino drinks including Aranciata,
Chinotto, and Sanbittèr. The Aranciata and Chinotto at Cost Plus are
like \$2.50 cheaper per six pack.
 
 I've had Aranciata before, so bought some of that. I had never had
Chinotto or Sanbittèr before, so I bought a six pack of the Chinotto.
Sanbittér comes in packs of (10) 100mL bottles for \$7.99. Not knowing
if I liked it or not, I only bought two bottles at \$0.80 each.
 
 Sanbittèr is a "non-alcoholic aperitif soda." Being the world traveler
that I am, I had to look up what "aperitif" means. Apparently it's *an
alcoholic drink taken before a meal as an appetizer*. Hmmm. Whatever,
right? So I pop open one of my tiny bottles of this stuff, take a very
small sip...
 
 And I really don't know what to make of it. It doesn't taste like
anything I've had before, but I don't think I like it. It's bitter, as
the name implies, but it leaves this nasty aftertaste that sort of
lingers and makes you a little ill after a while. I'm glad I only bought
two bottles of the stuff. I'll leave the other one unopened for show.
(If anything, San Pellegrino has *style* like nothing else.) Regardless,
I'm glad I tried it. Always good to try something new.
 
 I haven't yet tried the Chinotto yet. It's described as "sparkling
citrus beverage," whatever that's supposed to mean. It's the color that
worries me. It's brown. Limonata is yellow-green; Aranciata is orange;
Chinotto is brown. I'm not sure what to think of that, but I'll give it
a shot anyway.
 
 Thus ends my current search for beverages. I've given up the chase for
Bawls. Ordering online is cost-prohibitive (it's the shipping that kills
you off) and nowhere locally stocks it in a reliable fashion.
 
 That's okay; I could easily be a San Pellegrino man.
