---
layout: post
title: "Labor Day Weekend"
date: 2003-09-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 344
tags: [personal]
---
I think the list of what we *didn't* do this weekend will be shorter
than what we *did* do, but let's go through the activities anyway. It
was a really, really packed three-day weekend, let me tell you.

 Friday night I went home and played a couple of hours' worth of [*Soul
Calibur
II*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008H2IW/mhsvortex), which
I continue to maintain is the best fighting game *ever*. It's so totally
accessible and easy to pick up... yet the challenge is configurable so
that even the experienced players can make it fun. I like it because I
can just start playing, generally figure out how a character works, and
on the "normal" difficulty, I can run through an entire "arcade mode"
series of levels with just enough challenge to make it hard, but not so
much challenge that I get pissed off and turn off the game.

 The controls are well done and are simple to remember but complex
enough that you can do some pretty cool combos and things. Plus, the
"Weapons Master" mode is *awesome* - like a story or something. I dig
it.

 ![Kia Spectra GSX (4k
image)]({{ site.url }}/images/20030902kia.jpg)Saturday
I did my best to get the household chores done (vacuuming, etc.) in the
morning because that afternoon we decided to go to the Kia dealership
and get Jenn into a new car. Her old car, a Pontiac Sunfire convertible,
was a piece of crap and she needed something a little more reliable. We
got there at 1:00p or so (without eating lunch, stupid us), and after
four-and-a-half hours of *painful* negotiation, we ended up getting Jenn
a [Kia Spectra GSX](http://www.kia.com/spectra/hatchback.shtml) in the
"pewter gray" color. It's a manual transmission, which she's not used
to, so there's a bit of learning being done, but it's all good. She
enjoys it a lot, and I'm glad she's happy.

 Let it be known, though, that when I stepped onto the Kia lot, it was
definitely *not* the same experience as when I went to get my car at the
Acura lot. It was almost a different culture. Not necessarily *bad*,
just *different*.

 Sunday we went boating with my friends Jason and Tracy. We got off to a
sort of poor start because somehow the boat battery was dead, but we
discovered that while we were still at their house so we were able to
charge it up a bit before we left. Jason's brother, Adam, decided he
didn't want to rely on the charging job we did, so he decided he didn't
want to go. Whatever, man, he missed out on a good time.

 Put the boat in the Columbia River in [Goble,
OR](http://www.mapquest.com/maps/map.adp?country=US&addtohistory=&address=&city=goble&state=or&zipcode=&homesubmit=Get+Map),
and then went to a beach a mile or two down the river to eat lunch (just
drove the boat right up onto the beach, basically, and got out to eat).

 After we ate, we drove around on the river. It was pretty choppy, so
none of us got into the water, but driving around was fun. (I wouldn't
have gotten on an innertube behind the boat or anything anyway due to
bad past experience, but I'll get to that later.)

 We alternated between driving around in the boat and hanging out on the
beach for about three hours. A lot of fun was had by all. I noticed Jenn
and I were pinking up a bit, even though we had sunscreen on, but I
figured that's the price you pay, right?

 The plan after boating was to go to a local comedy club, but we got
back to their place and found out that the club had overbooked by 200
people, so we cancelled that idea. Instead, we got a bunch of people
together and watched the [latest Robin Williams stand-up
act](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000077VQ6/mhsvortex) on
video, which was hilarious. Played a little pool after that and then
went home.

 Monday morning Jenn and I woke up and realized that "pink" didn't
nearly accurately describe the sunburn issues we had going on. We were
*red*. Like, *really red*. No blisters or anything, but totally stiff,
totally in pain. I [somehow] burned the tops of my feet, so wearing
shoes and/or socks was unbearable. My neck was red and burning like
fire. My face was just sore... Jenn had similar problems, except for the
feet burn.

 I ended up going to a sporting goods store to get some cheap sandals
(the sandals I had on while boating were really crappy and had caused a
nice hole to be worn in the side of my foot) so I can walk around with
some semblance of shoes on. You'd be surprised how hard it is to find
anywhere that carries sandals at the end of summer. We went like four
different places before we found these, and at bargain prices, no less.
No complaints here.

 Went home after driving around to Jenn's parents' house to show them
the new car and played a bit more *Soul Calibur II*. Also played some
more
[*Amplitude*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000859TM/mhsvortex),
then watched a
[*Xena*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008DDWV/mhsvortex)
episode and turned in.

 Speaking of *Xena*, when you buy the DVD box set of the episodes, you
get a little coin. Each season has a coin that goes with it. You can
order a "free" (with $5 shipping) coin display holder thing to put the
coins in. You have the option of calling a toll-free number or sending
your check in the mail. I wanted to make sure my info was received, so
this morning I called.

 Bad choice.

 I got to talk to Shirley, an Asian lady with a mild grasp of English. I
told her I wanted the free coin holder thing. She proceeded to hard-sell
me on every *Xena* merchandise item they sell, from DVDs to replica
swords, for the next 45 minutes. Seriously. Every time I told her no, or
that I'd call her back later for stuff, she would make a last plea for
that item to be bought and then move on to give me the "next special
offer." I got the *Hercules* coin holder just to shut her up (an
additional whopping $5), but she was worse than a Kinney Shoes
salesman. Fuckin' vultures. Terrible. Next time I know to just mail the
damn check and hope for the best.

 So, a few follow-ups...

 First, my friend Doug got the list of stages that history goes through
(in reference to the [political raving I was
doing](/archive/2003/08/29/political-raving.aspx)):

- Bondage / Chains
- Spiritual Faith
- Courage
- Liberty
- Abundance
- Selfishness
- Complacency
- Apathy
- Dependency and Degeneracy
- Bondage / Chains

 Looks to me like we passed through Abundance and Selfishness in the
80's, hit Complacency and Apathy in the 90's, and we're currently
heading through Dependency and Degeneracy and into Bondage / Chains. Not
the "good," S&M kind, either. Bah.

 The book this is from is [*Exploring American History* by Michael
McHugh](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1930092962/mhsvortex).
According to his book, "all recorded history proves that the rise and
fall of every nation has followed the above pattern." Interesting, eh?

 Finally, why won't I go waterskiing or on an innertube behind a boat?
Well...

 I tried to waterski once. I had a pair of skis that we were using to
"train" the newbies on - the fronts and backs were tied together.
Apparently the really hard part is keeping your legs together and in
front of you long enough to get up. Seemed reasonable to me, right? So,
I got in the water and was told that if anything goes wrong, let go of
the rope and the boat will come around to get me. Cool.

 The boat started going, I started getting pulled, and then I started
losing my balance and wasn't feeling comfortable, so I let go of the
rope...

 ... which then wrapped itself around the rope holding the skis together
and I got drug underwater for an undetermined amount of time that was
altogether too long for me. Water up my nose, in my mouth, unable to
breathe... the worst ever. No thank you.

 On a separate occasion I thought I'd try going out on one of those
rocket-shaped inflatable deals that get towed behind the boat. Fun,
right? Everyone loves those things. Plus, no rope to wrap around your
skis and drag you underwater.

 I got out there with a cousin of mine who had been on them before. I
had never, and said straight-up that to begin with I'd like to go pretty
slow so I can get used to the feel of it. No problem, I was told. Just
do a thumbs-up / thumbs-down to say faster or slower.

 We got going, and we were doing okay, but this cousin of mine decides
we needed to go faster, so he jerked his thumb up high. I wasn't ready,
so I started doing a thumbs-down, but this asshole in front still wanted
faster, so was doing thumbs-up. Which took precedence? The thumbs-up,
obviously, as we continued going faster. I leaned over to this guy and
said, "Look, buddy. I'm not ready for this. We need to slow down so I
can get used to it, or I'm dumping us both off this thing." "No way,"
came the reply, along with another thumbs-up sign to the boat.

 Fine. Over we went.

 Or how about this one? I'd never been on a jet-ski before. A friend of
mine happened to be riding one and wanted to know if I wanted to go for
a ride behind her. I said fine, but I'd like to go slow to get used to
it. Sounding familiar? Guess who went really fucking fast and wouldn't
slow down for me until I was yelling and screaming at her.

 Never again will I waterski or go on anything towed behind the boat.
Never again will I be a *passenger* on a jet ski (there's not a lot to
hang onto, folks, and those stupid handles on the sides of the seat
don't fucking count). If I'm not *directly* in control of the speed or
direction of the watercraft, I'm not having anything to do with being
towed behind it. It taught me that, basically, I can't trust anyone to
drive in those situations because no one believes in letting a beginner
get used to what's going on. Never again.

 Anyway, that's the weekend. Long but fun, and not really relaxing.
Sleep when you're dead, right?
