---
layout: post
title: "Surreal Dinner"
date: 2003-04-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 238
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Went to the [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) playoff game last
night. It was good to see our hockey friends again (when you sit next to
the same people all season long but don't see them outside the arena,
those are *hockey friends*). We had a good time sitting in the luxury
box and drinking free beverages while watching the game. It always puts
a different perspective on the game sitting in a seat where you see the
ice as a whole rather than being right up front. I definitely like being
up front better - you feel more involved. Watching from up top was sort
of like watching the game on TV or playing the Playstation version. Not
so great, but very relaxing.
 
 Oh, and we lost in overtime, so I was right about jinxing the game by
attending.
 
 I forgot to mention the dinner Jenn and I went to on Sunday night!
 
 Jenn's dad's birthday was Sunday (I think... at least, that's why we
were at dinner), so we all went out to eat.
 
 Rather than choosing some place in town, Jenn's dad chooses this place
out in Mulino (that's pronounced "muh-LIE-noe"). Mulino is... Mulino is
somewhere on the outskirts of *BFE*. You get on the road, you drive
until you get tired, then you're in The Sticks. You drive through The
Sticks for about 15 minutes, and eventually you're in BFE. Once you see
the cows, keep driving and eventually you're in Mulino.
 
 To keep myself busy on the trip, I brought my GBA SP. On that trip I
decided that, as fun as the game is, if you're just over a cold, then
motion sickness will get the better of you. It got *really hot* in that
car, *really damn fast*.
 
 So the place we went was the restaurant at some golf course. Honestly,
I was busy playing GBA so I don't remember what the golf course was
called or really how we got there. That, combined with the light motion
sickness, rendered this and the entire rest of the evening pretty
surreal.
 
 I'm going to call the restaurant "Gramma's," because everything in the
restaurant talked about how "Gramma likes this" or "Gramma does that." I
find that most any restaurant Jenn's parents want to go to usually has
some sort of "down-home" theme that goes along with the whole "Gramma's"
motif. We've been to another restaurant, "Grandma's" (same thing,
right?), which was okay but not nearly as interesting as this golf
course joint.
 
 As we walked inside, Jenn's car alarm decided to spontaneously start up
and refuse to be shut off. Seriously, for like two minutes Jenn fought
that bitch to shut off and it just wouldn't die.
 
 Got in there and sat down. Looked around and decided that this was
probably one of the more Twilight Zone places I've ever eaten.
 
 [Lurch](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0057729) was the greeter. You walk in,
you pass Lurch. I'm not sure what the guy's real name was, and it really
doesn't matter. He was probably seven feet tall, skinny, medium tan
skin, brown hair. Bald on top, and what hair he did have was shaved a
quarter inch long. Lurch was wearing a maroon polo shirt with a white
sweater vest on top. Lurch's arms looked like he had a sweater under
that polo shirt. Sorta ape-like. Scary.
 
 The inside of the joint was done up to make you feel "at home," I
guess, with everything being made out of wood and given sort of an
antique look. Things like old saws and disembodied windows hung from
every possible location. It was verging on incoherent; too many
unrelated things floating around. The lights were not up high enough to
really see well, but not low enough to really emit any mood.
 
 Checking out the menu yielded some interesting meal choices. All of the
items were something like "The Farm Hand's Favorite" or "Gramma's
Special Meat Loaf." On the back, there was a list of "Gramma's Rules"
like "Gramma doesn't allow elbows on her tables" and "Gramma's chairs
were not meant to be rocking chairs." This was topped off by "Gramma
includes a mandatory 18% gratuity for parties of 8 or more" (which we
were) and "Gramma requires all parties of 8 or more be placed on a
single check."
 
 Gramma didn't occur to me to be the most flexible of people. I started
to wonder where the line between "Gramma" and "Hitler" was, and realized
it was probably a pretty gray area.
 
 Not being a big vegetable or meat loaf fan, I ended up ordering the
chicken fried steak and mashed potatoes, minus the side of broccoli, and
a Mountain Dew to drink.
 
 The Mountain Dew showed up almost immediately, which is good because I
was getting thirsty. Being in small cups and with plenty of ice, I
finished my first cup full pretty quickly.
 
 For a mandatory 18% gratuity, the service at Gramma's sure didn't pick
me up for a refill very fucking quickly. Seriously, like 20 minutes. No
wait staff to be found in the meantime.
 
 Went to the bathroom before the food showed up and no sooner did I open
the door than some guy's bowels blew out in the toilet bowl. I felt
personally affronted. I couldn't pee and get out fast enough.
 
 Eventually the food showed up. Jenn's dad's steak was cold, so he sent
it back and they nuked it for him. Good enough. When *my* food arrived,
I discovered that Gramma's favorite spice is paprika. *Everything* was
covered in paprika. The mashed potatoes. The country fried steak. The
plate. Everything.
 
 Started eating, and that's when the high school fiddle player started
up.
 
 I'm not sure if he was tuning up for like 10 minutes or if I just
didn't recognize the song. Then he took a break. Jenn said that if he
played "Turkey In The Straw," she was leaving. I told her I was holding
her to that.
 
 The fiddle player came back from his break and busted out with "Turkey
In The Straw." I glared at Jenn, and she laughed but wouldn't let us
leave. He also played "Danny Boy" and some other folk tunes, then went
around serenading tables individually. I was prepped to throw a fiver at
him to get him to stop playing entirely, but he never came to our table.
Lucky him.
 
 We finished up dinner and I passed on the apple-strawberry-rhubarb
cobbler. Rhubarb. Ick. Jenn boxed both mine and hers up and we took it
home so Jenn could have it.
 
 Getting ready to leave, Jenn's car alarm started going off again. She
ignored it while we got our coats on and left, and the whole time it was
going off. Eventually we got it to stop, but she said it was because
someone had done something to her car. I figured someone had broken in
to steal my GBA since nothing else about the car was worth anything, but
we couldn't find any damage or theft evident, so maybe the car is just
stupid.
 
 And that was that. We got out of there and drove the million miles
home. I think next time I'm going to insist that we go somewhere, uh,
*normal*.
