---
layout: post
title: "Red Dwarf, Hats, and Sickness"
date: 2003-03-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 226
tags: [tv]
---
I'm feeling a tad under the weather lately with the slightest twinge of
a head cold. I like to blame Jenn for that, since she's been sick for
the last week and a half, and I think that her snoring right in my face
at night has finally taken its toll. I drowned my sorrows in
[NyQuil](http://www.vicks.com/products/nyquil_liquid.shtml) prior to
retiring for the evening, and I am told that I did my share of snoring
last night, but I am entirely unable to remember since I was well into
my [NyQuil
Coma](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000005IKZ/mhsvortex). (I
have the *cherry* version, not the *green-fucking-death* flavor.)

 I received the [*Red Dwarf* series pack of
DVDs](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00007JZUB/mhsvortex)
(containing the episodes from series 1 and 2) last night from Amazon. It
had been a while since I'd seen the show (and Jenn had never seen it),
so I popped in the first disc and watched the first episode - *The End*.
I prefaced the playing of the show for Jenn with "This is British humor,
so you may or may not like it." On playing the show, the first words out
of her mouth were "Hey, wait! This is British!" Hmmm. Someone wasn't
*listening*, were they?

 The first episode, like other TV show first episodes, is good to
introduce the characters and the story but not so good for the rest - it
doesn't demonstrate really how funny the show can be. I don't think Jenn
liked it as much as I did, but I'll try to get her to watch a couple of
the funnier episodes and see where that takes us.

 After that and a little tortellini for dinner, we went over to my
parents' house to use my mom's sewing machine. Jenn's making herself a
dress, and I'm making a Queen Amidala style beaded hat out of a
[childrens' winter hat
pattern](http://store.sewingtoday.com/cgi-bin/butterick/shop.cgi?s.item.3317=x&TI='hat'&pageNum=2&M=&UK=20858389).
It's the first thing I've actually sewn from a pattern (usually it's
just guesswork and making things hook up right; I don't make clothing so
much as just decorative items that don't require exactitude), and I
think it is so far pretty good. The only thing that stopped me from
finishing the sewing part last night was that I ran out of bobbin thread
- I can use the sewing machine, but for the life of me I can't figure
out how to set it up. Oh well, I guess it takes practice.
