---
layout: post
title: "Re-evaluation"
date: 2003-01-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 205
tags: [personal,home,media]
---
With the changes we're making around the apartment (moving things around
and putting things in storage) in combination with the upcoming tax
preparation, I'm starting to re-evaluate lots of things.

 The housing situation I'm in bugs the *living shit* out of me. I'm
tired of having me, Jenn, the two cats, and enough *stuff* to fill a
two-bit flea market all crammed into 1000 square feet. It's just not
enough space. We've pared down a lot of the stuff we don't use, making
several donation trips to [Goodwill](http://www.goodwill.org/), having a
[garage sale](/archive/2002/09/16/warm-thrill-of-confusion.aspx), and
[getting this storage
closet](/archive/2003/01/27/bits-and-pieces-from-deep-down.aspx) to
offload some of the lesser used items. Even with all of that, I'm
irritated. I need space to stretch out and walk around in, and I just
don't have it here. I was hoping we could afford a house this year, but
with Jenn in school and without a regular job, and me with the economy
the way it is (*thanks, stock market!*), it's just not going to happen.

 The household budget is not nearly what it could be. I'm a cheap
bastard, I'll admit it. I really just don't value food, so when friends
ask me to go out for dinner, I usually say no - I just can't spend that
kind of money on something that goes in one hole and comes out the
other. What I do buy are DVDs and CDs. I'm a media *junkie*. I've got
[this rockin' CD database program](http://www.base40.com/) that I use to
keep track of my CDs, and looking at it now, it says I have 577 CDs.
That's counting multi-CD sets as individuals (so a two-CD set counts as
"2" and not "1"). I can't tell you how many DVDs I have, but they pretty
much fill up a six foot tall bookcase. I love my media. But now that
Christmas has passed and I have those bills coming in... and [I bought
my TV](/archive/2002/10/07/a-forty-inch-weekend.aspx) (which was
admittedly expensive but I haven't regretted it for a single second)...
man, I'm *fucking broke*. I mean, seriously. I used to be able to pay
all my bills and then put a little money into savings for a down payment
on a house or something. Not anymore. I'm spending every penny I bring
in, trying to pay down the credit cards and stuff. I haven't bought
nearly as many CDs or DVDs as I usually do, which hurts morale but helps
on the budget. I'm hoping to have some of the larger bills paid off by
the end of the quarter, at which point I will be in a better situation.

 Physical fitness has me irritated, too. As in, "I'm a hunk of lard and
my ass is melting over the sides of my chair right now because I'm so
disgustingly atrophied." Jenn and I are both a little concerned over our
personal fitness, since we both have desk jobs providing exercise
roughly the equivalent of grazing. We've picked up a couple of those
yoga exercise balls and have done a little work there, but somehow I
think I'm going to need something a little higher impact to counteract
the effect of the berry pie in the refrigerator. (Change my diet? *Are
you nuts?*) Of course, [I've talked about this
before](/archive/2002/08/16/pathetic.aspx), so I won't go on with it.
But it does bug me.

 So, anyway, I'm re-evaluating all this stuff, realizing that
something's got to give. I'm not sure what it'll be first, but something
tells me I'll fix up my budget and correct inadequacies in my housing
situation prior to ever getting anything resembling *muscle tone*.
