---
layout: post
title: "I Love It When A Plan Comes Together"
date: 2003-08-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 309
tags: [personal]
---
I started off this morning by waking up at 6:00a to my stupid fucking
downstairs neighbors starting up their "classic" convertible 70's
Cadillac and *revving the engine* for a few minutes, then shutting it
off and going back inside. *Nice.*

 That, of course, put me in a bad mood, which is not uncommon for me in
the morning since, frankly, I hate waking up. I'm not a big morning
person. I can stay up all night long if I know I don't have to get up
early for work the next day. But this was a *worse than usual* style
mood, which is bad news. I didn't expect much from the day.

 So far, though, the day is very pleasantly surprising me. I think my
friend Marty is going to hook me up with some space on his server, which
would allow me to post pictures of things like my stupid downstairs
neighbors' car, which would be altogether *too enriching* for the lives
of my readers. I like that.

 I got my Amazon Associates kickback gift certificate in email - a
whopping $11.05 this quarter, mostly generated from me ordering things
through my own damn site *thank you very much* - and I do have to say
that free money in the mail is never frowned upon in my household. Rock
on.

 Of course, I promptly used that $11.05 while pre-ordering [*Alias:
Season 2*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000ALF8I/mhsvortex)
and [*Angel: Season
2*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008YGRT/mhsvortex), both
sets I have been waiting for with baited breath, neither of which I
realized were coming out. Good times there.

 And, last, but not least, I've scheduled my 070-316 test, "Developing
and Implementing Windows-Based Applications with Microsoft Visual C\#
.NET and Microsoft Visual Studio .NET," to occur this coming Monday at
11:15a, since I have been studying the questions on the practice test
and they all make some weird sort of *natural sense*, like I might
actually know on some *instinctual level* the answers to the questions.
Seriously, the practice test is almost unreal in its relative ease,
compared to the last test I took. After talking to another guy who has
used practice test software from the same company as the practice test
I'm looking at, he says that his practice test was pretty dead-on for
what he saw on the actual exam. If that's the case, I'm thinking I
should pass without too much issue. I don't want to get overconfident,
but after looking at the practice test... I can't help but smile. So -
Monday. We'll see what happens there.

 And that's all just up until now. It's only... uh... 10:39a by my clock
(will probably be a little later by the time this gets posted, but
still), and things are going *swimmingly*.

 Nobody'd best come over and fuck up my mood or I'm going to be busting
some caps.
