---
layout: post
title: "Programming with the .NET Framework, Part 1"
date: 2003-07-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 297
tags: [dotnet,personal]
---
*9:22a*

 Second week of training is now underway. This time it's *MS-2349:
Programming with the Microsoft .NET Framework (Microsoft C# .NET)*.
It's actually more of the introductory "here's how to write programs"
sort of class, and you might ask yourself why I didn't start out by
taking this class.

 I'm asking myself that same question.

 Actually, it wasn't offered until now, so it wasn't possible. It would
have been nice, but now that I'm in it, I'm hoping it fills in gaps in
the knowledge I already have. That's what it's looking like to me so
far.

 *11:16a*

 The time's flying by, but mostly because this is total review so far
and I'm working on other things, like typing up the outcome of my
ten-year class reunion.

 In fact, a lot of this class, I feel, is going to be review, but the
stuff that isn't is going to be very valuable indeed. I'm hoping that
I'll solidify my knowledge of the C# language - finally get a good
understanding of the stuff that's a little foggy. We'll see, right?

 *12:41p*

 We have an hour and a half (starting at noon) to do lunch and a lab,
but I decided I was going to do the lab first and then just eat until
everyone else finished up.

 Of course, then I got talking to the instructor and now it's 41 minutes
into the time and I'm not even close to done with the lab. Maybe I
should go get something to eat, eh?

 *2:25p*

 I'm still doing review stuff in my class, but I've found *yet another*
pet peeve as I'm sitting here. Actually, two.

 First, I can't stand people who talk to you when you're trying to read
your book. Look, buddy, not only is it obvious that I'm reading (and,
hence, *busy*), but my reading implicitly indicates I have *nothing to
say to you*. Shut up and turn around.

 Second, I can't stand people who pretentiously sit back in a class and
act like they know everything about anything already and refuse to
listen to you. For example, I work *extensively* with SharePoint Portal
Server. I'd like to think I'm pretty up to speed on it. If you ask me a
question and I actually have an answer for you, don't instantly assume
that I'm wrong, especially if you've never used the motherfucker. *You
don't know, so you shut up.* Besides, if you're so smart, why are you
asking me?

 Anyway, that's where I'm at here.

 *3:29p*

 I should check out [Broken Saints](http://www.brokensaints.com/) when
I've got a computer with sound enabled and a decent connection. It's
supposed to be some pretty cool animation.

 I noticed my [first review is up on
YouBored.com](http://www.youbored.com/site/modules.php?name=News&file=article&sid=60).
Yay, me! It had two votes on it, with an average rating of 2.5 out of 5
(which means someone voted it as "2" and someone gave it a "3"), so I
chipped in a five-vote to raise my score. Hey, man - I like my review.
The thing is, I actually meant it to be a two-part review: the first
half explains the way I review and the rating scale, the second half is
the movie proper. It got posted as a single item, though, so it looks
like I'm not really paying attention to the movie and just running off
at the mouth. If I ever get access to post/edit the site directly, I'll
be fixing that.

 I actually got a note for another review job from them, but
unfortunately (as you are all aware) I'm in Bellevue through the rest of
the week and the movie's tomorrow night... so I'm not going to be able
to do it. I'd like to, though. Sort of sucks that it's this week and not
next week. Bah. Oh well. Hopefully there will be a "next time."

 *4:01p*

 We're going on, like, 40 minutes for a 30 minute lab. Not so great.
Admittedly, it's a lab involving web clients (ASP.NET) which no one else
here seems to be familiar with, but this is pretty ridiculous.

 *4:17p*

 The class seems to thrive on *bad geek humor*. Which means uncalled
for, ridiculous puns; utterly unrelated sidetracks and tangents; and
jokes with long buildups and no punchline.

 I am ready to *kill someone*.

 *4:38p*

 Aw, shit. Sidetrack. Well, not really *sidetrack* so much as the
know-it-all guy just *not getting it*. What's he not getting? *IT.* Does
it matter? The simple fact is that this guy's all hot shit and now he's
holding up the class.

 *5:02p*

 Well, that's the end of the day. Tomorrow morning we start with lab.
Let's see how this goes tomorrow. Time to get back to the hotel, maybe
do some of the lab work there.
