---
layout: post
title: "Steppin' Out"
date: 2003-06-06 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 268
tags: [personal]
---
Jenn and I got off our collective lazy ass last night and went to an
open house at a technical contracting firm that I work with.

 After quite the fight with traffic, we kicked and scratched our way
into a parking spot downtown and moved to the party.

 Got there and saw my friends Kristen and Sharon (who work at the firm)
and chowed down on the fairly decent spread of food.

 Sharon had her s/o there who had written "Shaft!" on his name tag. I
laughed about that and popped out a "Shut yo mouth!" at him, but now
that I look back on the whole situation, I never really got the guy's
name. I guess I'll just call him Shaft from now on.

 Kristen's mom and sister were also at this shindig. Her sister was
generally quiet, but her mom is quite the character. I don't think I can
count on all my protruding appendages the number of times she mentioned
that Kristen needs a boyfriend. Ah, parents. Ever the source of
embarrassment.

 Anyway, we hung out there for a while talking to Kristen, Sharon, and
Shaft, then packed up and went home.

 That whole story admittedly sounds pretty lame, but you have to
understand - I wasn't at home, I was out socializing, so you have to
give me points for that.

 Actually I'm not too bad with the social thing, but it's difficult for
me to mix business and pleasure. It may be a "party at work," but I'm
still sort of thinking, "Hey, I'm at work" rather than,
"Paaaaaartaaaaay!" Maybe that's just me. I think if Jenn, Sharon, Shaft,
Kristen, and myself were in some other [more socially-oriented] setting,
I might think less of the work aspect of things. After all, we *were* in
their office.

 I got the impression while talking with them all that "their group"
(i.e., everyone not Jenn or myself) was into the social/clubbing sort of
scene. I was sort of into that "social thing" for a while, but I think I
may just be getting bitter in my old age or something. Large quantities
of people I don't know + cigarette smoke clouds + expensive cover charge
= irritated Travis. I suppose if my group of friends did that stuff I'd
be into it, too, just to hang out with them. Maybe. Either way,
interesting to see how the "other side" lives sometimes.

 Jenn's out at her niece's pre-school (or is it kindergarten?)
graduation tonight so I'm popping my new [Mr. Bean
collection](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000085EEI/mhsvortex)
in the DVD player and kicking back. Jenn doesn't like Mr. Bean, so...
more fun for me.

 Yeah, that's a lame Friday night. But it's cheap, which fits my budget,
and it's stress-free, which is even better. Oh, yeah.
