---
layout: post
title: "Brainwork"
date: 2003-09-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 347
tags: [personal]
---
I scheduled my next test, *MS 070-315: Developing and Implementing Web
Applications with Microsoft Visual C\#.NET and Microsoft Visual
Studio.NET*, for this coming Monday at 2:00p. It's scheduled to run for
two-and-a-half hours, but I'm hoping it doesn't actually take that long.
The last few have been like that - scheduled for a long time but only
taking about an hour. Here's hoping. I've been studying the practice
test I have and it's feeling pretty good. It covers pretty much
everything that *wasn't* in the training course, which figures. I think
I should be able to muddle through reasonably well with my existing
experience and some good old logic. Maybe.

 Jenn's birthday is coming up and I nearly had to beat her to death to
get a list of things she'd like for gifts. She says she doesn't know
what she wants, but somehow expects me to come up with some surprise
thing that she wants but doesn't know it. Riiiiight. I basically laid
out that I'm tired of being the critical thinking problem solver when I
provide a HUGE list for people every holiday (like, over a hundred
different things) and people still complain that I didn't provide a big
enough selection. Fuck that, man. No list = Sizzler gift certificate.

 I was playing
[*Amplitude*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000859TM/mhsvortex)
again last night and the more I play it, the more I realize how true it
is that you can't *think* while you play, [you just have to
*play*](/archive/2003/08/27/amplitude-aptitude.aspx). I mean, like, Jenn
was trying to talk at me (more "at" than "to" at the time, methinks)
while I was working on a particularly difficult song, and while she was
talking there was no way I could do it because I was trying to
concentrate on her words. Same goes for checking the score - I can't be
looking around, thinking about the score or anything - I just have to
play the game. No explicit brain work involved; simple implicit
functioning. And let me tell you how *nice and relaxing that is*. To not
have to think, just to *do*.

 I believe that's what's wearing me out at work. When I'm at work
(which, seriously, anymore I totally dread), I'm *wiped out*. Why?
Because I don't just get to program stuff and exercise knowledge that
I've learned; I only ever get to fight these difficult uphill battles of
me vs. technology - work on undocumented product with no help and too
much to do... you don't realize how totally exhausting it is.

 Plus, for the last few months I go home and I study to take the
certification tests. So it's not like I get a break when I get home. I
don't remember most of college being this stressful, but the parts that
were... well, let's just say that I took a break from studying over the
Labor Day holiday last weekend and I *didn't miss it a bit*.

 All that, combined with stuff like "I don't know what I want for my
birthday but I won't be happy with a gift certificate so you'd best
figure something out" makes me either want to pass out or kill someone.
I'm honestly not sure which.

 I'll survive. It would just be nice to *not* have to fight all day to
get things to work. It would be nice if I could do something *easy* for
a change. It'd be nice to work on something *other than* SharePoint
Portal Server 2003. Somehow, I don't see ever escaping this thing,
though. Even after rollout, there's user training and continued
development and everything else on SPS 2003, so regardless of how
optimistic my boss is about "seeing the light at the end of the tunnel,"
I'm convinced it's more a black hole than a tunnel. There's no light,
just endless dark.

 I wonder what's on [Monster](http://www.monster.com) today...
