---
layout: post
title: "Windows Apps, Part 3"
date: 2003-06-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 279
tags: [General Ramblings,.NET,GeekSpeak]
---
We're just about done here. I'm going to post now and get things ready
to go.
 
 I've got a nice long drive ahead of me. Bah.
 **Wednesday, June 25**
 
 *8:42a*
 
 I was told last night that my classroom play-by-plays aren't so
interesting all the time. (Thanks, Jenn.) I won't deny that. They
probably are a little more boring than my standard rant about some
stupid asshole who can't figure out that going 30 to merge on a freeway
traveling 60 isn't going to work.
 
 But look at it this way - you can't please all of the people all of the
time. Right? I mean, it's not like I'm sitting here getting five days
worth of class in three days while sipping pi√±a coladas or some shit.
I'm getting the crap beat out of me (from a mental perspective) and
working on the "misery loves company" philosophy. Sorry this isn't as
*entertaining* as all that, but no one's life is *always* entertaining.
At least, not on paper.
 
 Now, in *person*, clever-and-funny is my modus operandi. At least, I
think so. I can probably find a few people out there who will
[reluctantly] agree.
 
 Ate dinner last night at Burgermaster, sort of a farewell between me
and the master of burgers, and got a bacon cheeseburger with onion
rings. My mouth is still greasy, and I continue to burp oniony goodness
even this morning. I'm sure my classmates are going to love that.
 
 I'm working on redoing my blog using CSS (in an effort to lower the
quantity of HTML on the site), but I've run into some issues getting the
three-column format to work entirely in CSS... I'll have to keep working
on this. I'd like to get rid of tables entirely so I can more easily
change the look and feel of the site when that time comes. Plus, again,
I'm running out of space on the server... I've gotta reduce the size of
each page.
 
 *11:27a*
 
 We're talking now about accessibility - making applications available
to disabled users. It's interesting how much infrastructure there is
that I was never even aware of before. Definitely something that I need
to take advantage of in my endeavors.
 
 To that end, I should probably download this Zoom+ app (just for
demo/development purposes):
[http://www.gipsysoft.com/zoomplus/](http://www.gipsysoft.com/zoomplus/)
 
 *12:06p*
 
 We just finished talking about how to add help to your applications.
Now it's time for lunch - back to the little dicey deli they've got down
the block. I had an iffy roast beef sandwich that actually *bled* a
little, so I'm curious what else they've got up their sleeves for me.
 
 *1:56p*
 
 The deli provided a satisfactory lunch involving a sandwich of various
meat-food types and some green lettuce-like substance. I had to remove
one of the lettuce formations from the sandwich due to its recalcitrant
nature. Those giant hunks of hard... whatever that stuff is... just
don't fly with me.
 
 I barely finished eating before we started class again, so I'm just now
getting to the lunch discussion. Not much to say beyond that, though.
We've gone through application localization and now we're into
deployment. Yeah, that's boring. I know. You should be in the class.
 
 *3:18p*
 
 We're on the last module now - security. It's starting to look a lot
like the security talk I heard in the class I was in last week. I'm
hoping this will be a review rather than a load of new concepts. I'm
beat, and I've got a long drive ahead of me.
 
 During the few breaks we've had I've worked some more on getting the
CSS built up for my blog. It's actually a lot more complex than I'd
originally thought it was going to be, but I can already see the space
savings it will provide.
 
 You might wonder why I care about space. Well, right now I've only got
like 10MB on my web host. With that little space, every bit counts.
Since GreyMatter (my blog package) statically renders each entry into
its own page, if I can reduce each entry's size by a little bit, the sum
total of savings is much larger. Each page currently is around 15KB in
size. I might be able to cut that in half with CSS, which means I can
have twice as many entries before I have to move to a new host. Plus the
ease of reformatting that CSS provides. I can revamp the whole site with
no issues. Win-win, as they say.
 
 If I do end up moving, I'm going to migrate to Movable Type with a
database back end. That way I can get pages rendered on the fly and save
a hell of a lot more space. I'll also be able to have a better
search/category facility.
 
 But I'm cheap, and I don't want to pay for hosting right now. So we get
what we get. Maybe I can get permission at work to put up a publicly
accessible blog server. Hmmm...
 
 *4:14p*
 
 I think I'm just going to go ahead and post this thing. We're almost
done, and I'm sure nothing else is going to be interesting prior to
going home.
 
 All I know is I have a lot of messing around with programming to do
before I really have this stuff down.

