---
layout: post
title: "Death and Taxes"
date: 2003-02-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 212
tags: [personal]
---
Well, more "taxes" than "death," but I think the two are roughly
equivalent.

 Sunday was eventful in the tax realm.

 For the last two or three years I've filed both my federal and state
income taxes using [TurboTax.com](http://www.turbotax.com). I don't have
to pay for the tax software, yet I still get the benefits of filing
electronically and using the helpful wizards the software provides.

 In prior years, I have normally gotten quite a bit back at the end of
the year because I overpaid over the course of that year. Often the
amount is between \$100 and \$500.

 Last year, I got about \$50 total back. Not great, but at least I
didn't owe.

 Now, keeping that in mind, I went to [the
mall](http://www.lloydcentermall.com/) this weekend. I thought, hey, I
normally get a little something back, so maybe I can treat myself to a
prize. I went to [Toys R
Us](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?tag=mhsvortex&path=tg/browse/-/171280/)
and bought the [*Lord of the Rings* version of the game
Risk](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006653W/mhsvortex). (I
didn't already have a Risk game, and this looked cool.) That cost me
\$25. I then went to the GameStop store and put \$25 down towards the
pre-order of a [Game Boy Advance
SP](http://pocket.ign.com/articles/382/382062p1.html). (Total purchase
price will be \$100, but I don't have to cough the rest up until
March.)

 \$50 - that was my limit, and that's what I spent.

 This year I owe \$336 in taxes.

 Okay, so that's not going to bankrupt me or anything, but looking at it
very roughly, it looks like I'm getting hit with about a 30% tax rate on
my gross income. Maybe a little more or less, but about 30%. Then after
contributions to my 401(k) - nothing astronomical, just enough to make
it so I won't retire and live in a cardboard box - I net enough to pay
the rent, pay off my car and credit card bills, and maybe do something
fun once a week or so.

 No, I didn't do anything with the stock market - I didn't sell, didn't
exercise any stock options. I could probably have filled out the "EZ"
form with the amount of stuff going on.

 How are people supposed to be able to move up in the world?

 I'd eventually like to move out of the apartment and into a house. I
can't save a damn dime at the rate the money's flying out the door. I
guess that's the poor economy, hitting me square in the ass.

 Then I look at the actual amount of money they're taking from me for
the federal and state governments. Somehow I don't feel like I'm getting
my money's worth. Not to mention the whole [*Social
Security*](http://www.ssa.gov/) debacle. Let me tell you who's tired of
paying Social Security to the wealthy retired people. (People who *need*
the benefits, fine. But my grandparents sure as hell don't need it, and
they get a check every month.)

 So, anyway, the money's tight and I'm really starting to feel the
pressure of that. Jenn and I were hoping to go on vacation somewhere
this year, like [we went to Vegas last
year](/archive/2002/05/20/parlez-vous-las-vegas.aspx), but I'm sort of
doubting if that's going to happen.

 Season [hockey tickets](http://www.winterhawks.com) next year? Not if
they keep raising the prices like they have been.

 It's amazing how the cost of living keeps going up yet my salary stays
somehow rock-*fucking*-solid.
