---
layout: post
title: "Programming with the .NET Framework, Part 3"
date: 2003-07-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 299
tags: [General Ramblings,GeekSpeak,.NET]
---
*9:38a*
 
 I'm back in class again, which means I'm back to waiting for the rest
of class to get their shit together while I surf the web.
 
 I'm learning some good stuff, details that I wasn't aware of, which is
a Good Thing. After going through a few more flash cards last night in
preparation for the tests I've got to take, I found that I don't know
*crap*. That said, I still need to run through a full practice test
because, while flash cards are good, I think I'll know the answer if I
get to see it in a multiple choice context (which is how the tests
work). At least that's what I'm hoping.
 
 I was going to do a practice test last night, but when I clicked the
"start" button, it came up with a surprise "Activate This Product Now!"
screen, telling me that if I want to do the test I need to connect
online to their web site and get a code. Of course, I don't have
Internet access from the hotel, so I was hosed. I tried to get my cell
phone working as a modem via infrared, but that didn't work so well.
 
 I went to the web site this morning and entered one code, then got
another code that I've written down that should, when I return to the
room, successfully activate the test so I can make use of it.
 
 Here's something I'm wondering: How come coffee foams up like pee
bubbles? That whole idea disturbs me.
 
 *9:56p*
 
 I've been trying, for the last 10 minutes, to reply to a message via
webmail. But the stupid "compose message" screen *will not* come up and
I'm pretty much ready to beat the crap out of it... in a, uh, virtual
sort of way.
 
 The rest of the class is still working on their labs, and I'm
*boooooored*. I think I may play a little Game Boy, since I finished my
book last night and I don't have anything here to read.
 
 *10:06a*
 
 Hold on to your seats, folks, we've finally started class.
 
 *10:24a*
 
 I thought of a cool idea for a program (for the .NET developers out
there). A full-featured configuration file editor. Windows/console
applications have pretty extensive configuration files that allow you to
govern how they link to different library versions, which paths they
search, etc. Web apps have different security settings, handlers
specified, etc. Microsoft provides the "mscorcfg.msc" tool that does
some of the Windows/console app configuration for you, but it's not
all-inclusive and it doesn't do web apps. I've seen a semi-functional
web app config file editor, but it didn't do Windows/console apps. A
full config editor would be a Cool Thing, and I think it might give me
some good experience developing applications for Windows in .NET.
 
 Not to mention making it easier for everyone to work with configuration
files.
 
 I'm thinking if you wrote your classes write, wired them up with
XmlSerializer attributes, you could just deserialize the configuration
file directly, make changes to the classes, then just serialize it all
back into your config file.
 
 Hmmm...
 
 *11:32a*
 
 [Check this
out](http://babelfish.altavista.com/babelfish/urltrurl?lp=ja_en&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.watch.impress.co.jp%2Fakiba%2Fhotline%2F20030719%2Fetc_et128m.html)
- 128MB USB drive for \$37, and it's smaller than other USB drives. I
may have to splurge on this.
 
 *11:56a*
 
 Lab time.
 
 I have to say, I'm feeling a little oppressed in this overly geeky
environment. I mean, sure, I work in a software development company, but
the *terrible, terrible* geek humor isn't remotely as prevalent as it
seems to be here.
 
 I sit in class here and people say things like, "I can't tell you *how
many times* I was burned by not having a *copy constructor*" and then
snicker at the... humor? Riiiight. You're so *funny!* You should be a
*comedian!*
 
 *2:11p*
 
 Well, I've had lunch (sandwich) and finished the lab work, and now
we're moving on. I'm glad we're sticking to the schedule; we might be
able to move right along.
 
 *2:40p*
 
 Webmail is working again, so I was able to reply to a couple of
messages. That's cool.
 
 *3:45p*
 
 I think we're on the last lab of the day. We get to write simple chat
server applications. Should be interesting.
 
 I noticed the bathroom here smells like the one at my dentist's office.
Sort of a mixture of urinal cakes and Scope mouthwash.
 
 *4:41p*
 
 That's the end of lab. I'm outta here.
