---
layout: post
title: "ASP.NET, Part 3"
date: 2003-08-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 329
tags: [GeekSpeak,Web Development,.NET]
---
*8:00a*
 
 I forgot to mention earlier that this weekend I went to
[Safeway](http://www.safeway.com) and picked up this soda called "Red
Twist." It tastes *just like red licorice*. That may sound gross to some
of you, but I'm sucked in. It's awesome.
 
 *8:25a*
 
 I got my credit report last night because Jenn had received a free one
and saw a bunch of stuff that probably shouldn't be there, so I got
concerned. I ordered the 3-in-1 version from
[Equifax](http://www.equifax.com) which shows you all of your
information from the major three credit reporting agencies. Luckily,
everything on mine was pretty much up-to-snuff. There are a couple of
discrepancies I have which I will dispute - for example, I had a credit
card with a company that ended up going out of business and that credit
line still shows as "open."
 
 Also, I scheduled my next test - *MS070-320 Developing XML Web Services
and Serviced Components with Visual C\# and the .NET Framework* - for
this coming Monday at 11:30a. It's scheduled for two and a half hours;
let's hope it doesn't take that long.
 
 *9:46a*
 
 We're almost done with the first section of the day, which was an
overview of ADO.NET. For those in the cheap seats, ADO.NET was the
three-day in-depth class I took *last week*, so I can't say this wasn't
a bit slow for me. What really got me, though, was the guy in my class
who was also in my class last week... I think he was sort of "playing
dumb" because he was quiet whenever the teacher asked any question, and
I know we went over this stuff.
 
 It got me to thinking that in classrooms everywhere, there are two
major roles that get played. There's the teacher, who will always ask
questions of the class and actually expect to get an answer. Then
there's the student, who will never offer an answer regardless of
whether the answer is known. I wonder why people do that - sit silent
when they can answer the question. I don't; I'll answer, but then it
seems like I'm the only one ever answering anything, so I start getting
quieter and quieter so I can give the other students a chance... and
they never take it. How irritating.
 
 My mom emailed me and it seems that the table I thought [Fred
Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) carried - a bar-height table to go with
some nice bar stools - was ony a figment of my imagination. So I guess
I'll continue looking and will probably end up with the [Bordeaux Bistro
Set](http://www.furniturefind.com/Hillsdale/HD-BordeauxBistro.htm) I saw
this weekend online.
 
 *10:10a*
 
 Lab.
 
 *10:22a*
 
 Done.
 
 Looking at the next section, I see that we've got another ADO.NET
review. Well, I guess my game of Spider Solitaire will just be
improving...
 
 *11:57a*
 
 We're finally done with the ADO.NET chapter, and it's lunch time before
the lab. Whew. It's been pretty slow, and I'm ready to get up and go.
 
 *12:39p*
 
 Got the "nacho beef bake" at the store today. For being \$8 a pound,
this is the best thing I've had from there so far. Pretty tasty. I only
got half a pound, but I could probably have eaten a whole pound if it
hadn't been so expensive. Maybe I'll have to get that again tomorrow. I
think it's going to give me heartburn, though.
 
 Something else I forgot to mention: I played the demo for [*Soul
Calibur
II*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008H2IW/mhsvortex) on PS2
this weekend. *Loved it.* It's a fighting game similar to the DOA series
that I like, where you don't have to remember 30,000 different button
combinations to get things done - you have "vertical attack,"
"horizontal attack," "kick," and "block." I think I can figure that one
out. I may have to pick it up. Folks say it's one of the best fighthing
games ever, and from what I've seen I tend to agree.
 
 *1:05p*
 
 Done with the lab. Seems that several folks stayed through lunch and
finished it up, so I guess I'm about even with them now. That's okay,
maybe we'll get out early again...
 
 Looks like the next chapter is more ADO.NET. I understand why they have
an overview in every class - it's important stuff - but we seem to be
dwelling on it in here WAY more than any other class (other than the
dedicated ADO.NET class that I just took).
 
 *1:23p*
 
 Heeeeeartbuuuuuuurn.....
 
 [This](http://www.whoisxiii.com/) looks like a *rockin'* game.
 
 *2:10p*
 
 We're a full chapter ahead today. We had the option of leaving early or
going through another chapter, so we chose another chapter so we can try
for a half-day Friday. I think we'll still get out pretty early, and
that's *just fine*.
 
 *2:21p*
 
 Oh boy. This chapter starts out with "What Is XML?" The end gets into
some good stuff, though.
 
 *3:00p*
 
 We're about halfway through this chapter and we're starting to get to
the good stuff. We'll probably leave the really good stuff for tomorrow,
though.
 
 *3:28p*
 
 We're at the last lab for the day. I guess we're going to do it
tomorrow, so I'm outta here. Which is fine; it should take about 10
minutes to do it.
