---
layout: post
title: "Programming SQL Server, Part 1"
date: 2003-07-07 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 288
tags: [sql,personal]
---
*8:53a*

 The instructor made a Starbucks run before class and got me a
[Venti<sup>TM</sup> Mocha
Frappuccino®](/archive/2002/04/04/talk-dirty-to-me.aspx). I'm feeling
pretty good and ready to learn. Amazing, the power of Starbucks.

 *9:20a*

 We're on break.

 Things are starting to come together. We're doing a review of some of
the database server stuff, and I actually do recognize the stuff we're
talking about, so I think that's a good thing. It's been a long time
since I've taken a test of any nature, so the idea of taking these
Microsoft certification tests sort of freaks me out, almost like I've
forgotten how to study or learn.

 I think the real problem I have with testing, especially when it comes
to computer-related stuff, is that there really isn't a time when I'll
be programming or doing something and I won't have access to help
documentation or books. You don't *have* to memorize things. You use the
facilities that are available. But in tests, you don't get the books...
so you have to do the memorization. It's been a long time since I've had
to do that. I hope I do well.

 This is the last SQL Server class I've got scheduled, so I'm going to
try to get the self-test software, study up a bit, and [schedule the
test](http://www.prometric.com/). I only get reimbursed the \$125 for
the test if I pass... I'd best pass.

 Thank God they're multiple choice tests.

 Okay, back to class.

 *12:29p*

 I did my standard Fred Meyer deli lunch, having a "jalapeño cheese
stick" and two "pizza sticks" because they were out of burritos. I also
looked around in the photo/electronics section (as is my wont) and
didn't see anything I needed.

 During lunch I continued reading [*Harry Potter and the Order of the
Phoenix*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/043935806X/mhsvortex),
the UK edition, which I started this weekend. Compared to the Tom Clancy
book I finished, this is a walk in the park. I'm glad to finally get
into a book that I can enjoy and read quickly - I have a better time
with it and don't feel like there's a whole lot of work for very little
payoff. I'm already like 200 pages into it, and I haven't even really
dedicated a lot of time to it.

 *2:17p*

 I've not written a lot about the class because, frankly, it's not the
most interesting material, and for those non-technical folks out there,
it's even worse. Basically, what I'm finding out here is that there's a
lot for me to learn, especially in light of the fact I need to take some
tests on this stuff and actually pass without using the manuals that I
am accustomed to using.

 I was able to get my hands on the self test software that goes along
with the courses, so I'm hoping that I can take some time and study that
maybe next week while I'm in Bellevue sitting bored. I also need to do
some of the labs from the class I took a couple of weeks ago (that I
didn't get the chance to do labs in).

 I wish I had a CD burner on my laptop. I've been downloading this self
test software and whatnot to my USB drive (thank goodness I've got
that!) but they're pretty large files and I need to offload some of that
to CD - if anything, for archival purposes. I may have to go in to work
sometime this week, maybe during lunch, and burn off this stuff to CD.
Gotta do it at least by next week, since I'll be in Bellevue.

 I should hook myself up with
[wwwstat](http://ftp.ics.uci.edu/pub/websoft/wwwstat/) so I can see how
many people are checking out my site. I'm starting to gather that I have
a lot of you *lurkers* out there who read me but don't leave comments
(shame on you!).

 *3:06p*

 That's it! I just finished the lab, so I'm outta here. If I get home in
time, maybe I'll work on some of the labs I missed out on...

 ... or maybe I'll just read Harry Potter. :)
