---
layout: post
title: "Programming SQL Server, Part 4"
date: 2003-07-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 292
tags: [GeekSpeak,General Ramblings]
---
*9:35a*
 
 Well, I didn't win the lottery (obviously), so I'm in class again.
 
 *9:47a*
 
 I'm finding that, since there are only two of us in class, it's
difficult to type things up during the lesson because if I'm typing and
the other guy in class (who always has this look like he has no clue
what's going on around him) is doing... whatever he's doing... then the
teacher starts thinking no one is paying attention. Having been in that
situation, I know where he's coming from.
 
 I'm almost done with [*Harry Potter and the Order of the
Phoenix*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/043935806X/mhsvortex).
765 pages in the book (I've got the UK edition) and I've only got like
30 pages left. This is going much faster than my last book, and I hope
the next book I read is this interesting.
 
 That said, I'm glad to be getting through this because I really need to
start focusing on test preparation and it's difficult when I just want
to sit and read my book rather than buckling down and doing what I need
to do. I should have the book done today sometime and tonight I'll maybe
work on some of the labwork from the [Programming
Windows](/archive/2003/06/23/windows-apps-part-1.aspx) class I took a
while back.
 
 I ordered, for \$3.75 shipping, the [BMWFilms
DVD](http://usa.bmwfilms.com/clap.asp?template=dvdlanding&country=usa&film=).
Good stuff there. If you haven't seen the films, check them out.
 
 I got my [Zaino](http://www.zainobros.com) car polish products in the
mail yesterday so now I'm anxious to try them out, but I'm going to have
to find some good time to do that. I'm thinking if I can get out of here
early tomorrow, I can go straight over to my parents' house to wash the
car down and maybe get the first coat of polish on. I will probably be
able to do a second coat, then, in the morning on Saturday, which would
be good because my class reunion's that night and I'd like to have a
spiffy car for the occasion. Not that my car's not already spiffy, but a
nice coat of polish would do it well.
 
 My parents went to *Mamma Mia!* last night and they liked it a lot,
though they agreed that a couple of the actors were a little wooden. I
did have a good time with it, it just wasn't quite what I expected.
Anyway, Mom took the shirt Jenn bought at the show on Tuesday back to
the show when she went on Wednesday and the concessions guy traded it in
for a different model shirt that would fit. That's cool, so Jenn will
get her *Mamma Mia!* shirt. It's not the one she wanted, but it's a
shirt. Sucks that the one she wanted didn't fit. (The other girls'
shirts there also only came in "fitted large" size, which I think is
crazy - in today's society, "one size fits all" is not a valid way to
fly. Jenn ended up getting the "generic t-shirt" style shirt, which is
not nearly as cute as the one she wanted.)
 
 *10:43a*
 
 The teacher has said that if he lets us go to fast and we get out too
early, he'll be in trouble, so I guess we're taking more breaks to fill
the time. That's okay. During the downtimes I'm catching bits of Harry
Potter. Getting closer to done...
 
 *11:25a*
 
 Lunchtime! I'd best go to the store and get me another book; I'm really
close to done here!
 
 *12:22p*
 
 I finished *Harry Potter* at lunch and I think this is the best one
yet. I liked how you get to see more of his internal feelings of growing
up, becoming interested in girls, etc. It makes him a much richer
character. Not to mention a darn good story and a lot more of the
workings of the wizarding society - more information on the Ministry of
Magic and so forth. I think this will make a *spectacular* movie when
the time comes.
 
 Of course, if you haven't read the first four books, I don't know that
this fifth book is the place to start. Newbies aren't going to get all
the references to the previous books and will miss several subtle yet
significant points. That doesn't mean "go see the movies and skip the
books" - you need to *read the books* to get all the subtle stuff and
then read this latest. It'll be worth your effort.
 
 *1:15p*
 
 We're already done with the stuff for today, but the teacher's going to
get in trouble if we get out too early, so we're going to look at some
other advanced topics that aren't really covered in the class (like some
of the XML stuff that SQL Server can do).
 
 I'm all for leaving right now, since I could go over to my parents'
house and start cleaning up my car or maybe go home and do some of the
labs for the Programming Windows Apps class. But I don't want the guy to
get into trouble, so I'll hang out.
 
 *2:27p*
 
 Well, class is done, but I'm in the process of reformatting my blog to
use CSS (why not, right?) so I'll be here for a little longer.
