---
layout: post
title: "Gathering Requirements"
date: 2003-09-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 352
tags: [sharepoint]
---
Here's my issue of the day:

 I'm working on this *huge* project - a full Knowledge Management
Initiative - within the company, the prime result of which is the
rollout of SharePoint Portal Server 2003. I've been working on this
project for... I don't know, like nine months now. It takes pretty much
all of my time.

 At the outset, Microsoft was paying some contractors to help us
organize things, define requirements for what needs to be done, and
implement the stuff. That was good, because I'm the only Corillian
developer working on this thing, and it's a pretty huge task.

 Bad project management reared its ugly head and we ran out of
contracting hours with the folks organizing things. *Twice.*

 What did I net from them? A couple of 90% complete web parts. A
half-complete requirements document for a portion of our extranet and a
mostly complete infrastructure document for our intranet. Nothing about
the front end. Nothing about the programmatic elements that have to be
developed.

 These people spent *hours* in meetings with the key players in the
company gathering requirements. What happened to all of that work?

 **Bah.**

 Just goes to show you can't count on anyone but yourself.

 [Side note: I just got an email in my inbox from one of the guys in my
department that begins, "I have received approval to approve the
following..." Approval to approve? Does he *read* the shit he sends
out?]

 So, anyway, I'm feeling a little overwhelmed. I've been going back and
forth trying to gather requirements on my own, but it's been difficult
at best.

 It's sort of like writing a paper in school. Your teacher says you need
to write 200 pages on some nebulous topic that you don't particularly
care for or have anything to say about. No guidelines on points to cover
in the paper, no discussion of style or structure. Go. That's what this
is like - "You need to roll out a new extranet and an intranet. Go."
Huh?

 I'm sure I'll look back on this (at some point in the distant, distant
future) and say, "Holy shit, I'm *still* working on this project?"

 Seriously, though, I know I'll look back on this thing and say, "Wow,
that was a huge project and we (reads: I) did a great job rolling that
sonofabitch out. Glad that's over. Moving on to bigger and better things
now." But that day is a long time from now and it doesn't seem to be
approaching at any measurable pace.

 Supposedly this thing needs to be out in "Q4." Um, yeah.
