---
layout: post
title: "Festival Du Weekend"
date: 2003-09-23 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 363
tags: [personal]
---
I posted my *Underworld* review yesterday, so I'll tell you what I did
this weekend today. Now that it's already Tuesday.

 ![20030922\_tjfront (4k
image)](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pd6-AQsZUlLXIQJGdta0TXewudBIZ92kihJbKE1eB5hxPLaXpSKzVEDkF8gU2EHe8MYfsQIUKpqw3EApUnZZ8n_0Y2vJnVoYmsjlVLqIISak/20030922tjfront.jpg?psid=1)Friday
was the intern at work's last day, so we took him out to lunch at
Chang's Mongolian Grill and signed this terrible shirt that Jenn's
grandparents got me for Christmas and gave it to him. The Worst Shirt
Ever. And there's another one, waiting here for the next intern. Yeah, I
got two of those mothers.

 After work, Greg and I went to see *Underworld*, [the review for which
I've posted already](/archive/2003/09/22/review-underworld.aspx). It was
decent.

 Woke up the next morning to find that Chang's had a negative effect on
me all the way around. My stomach was rumbly and the apartment smelled
of farts and garlic. I guess I woke Jenn up in the middle of the night
by farting in my sleep (hehehehehe). I think I'd best lay off the
Chang's.

 Saturday I went to the first [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com)
game of the season, and I hope that the season opener is indicative of
what we can expect the rest of the season. Not only did they win *and*
fight, but they also scored during the "Pizza Schmizza Magic Minute,"
which means we all got free pizza. Doesn't get much better than that.

 While at the hockey game, I was talking to my friend Jerry's daughter,
Suzanne (who, by the way, is hot like Alicia Silverstone in *Clueless*),
and I came to find that she didn't know what funk music was. How do you
describe funk? I named several artists, and she'd never heard of any of
them. She's 21, and I'm only 27, but that makes me feel old. Kids
nowadays, man.

 Sunday I went to see [*Bubba Ho-Tep*](http://www.bubbahotep.com/) at
[Cinema 21](http://www.cinema21.com/) with my friend
[Darren](http://www.reely.com). It was a reasonably funny movie about
Elvis in a rest home, fighting a mummy who eats the souls of old people.
Sound silly? It was, but it was entertaining.

 Yesterday was my sister Tai's birthday, so Jenn and I headed over to my
parents' house for cake and ice cream. It was a decent family gathering.
Tai said she was glad I was there, but was a little disappointed that I
didn't call her in the morning to say happy birthday. Two things on
that: first, I don't call *anyone* for holidays, or much anything else
for that matter; second, I don't remember getting any call on *my*
birthday. Hmmm. Okay, then.

 Sunday (the 28th) is Tori's birthday (my other sister). But she's in
Utah, so no family gathering.

 I was listening to the Scorpions song, "Rock You Like A Hurricane," and
I was thinking about the whole "Hurricane Isabel" thing going on right
now and how it used to be "Tropical Storm Isabel," and it got me
wondering... when the Scorpions wrote that song, did they sit around and
think, "Hmmm... 'Rock you like a tropical storm?' No... 'Rock you like a
tornado?' No... How about 'rock you like a squall?' Uh-uh. Oh, I got it!
'Rock you like a hurricane!' Yeah, I like that!"
