---
layout: post
title: "Finally A Good Day"
date: 2003-11-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 406
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I woke up Saturday morning around 8:00a and finished reading my book,
[*Artemis
Fowl*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0786817070/mhsvortex),
while lying in bed. Excellent book, and it put me in a reasonably good
mood.
 
 Around 9:00a or so, I decided it was time to call Sony regarding my
Playstation 2 issues. I steeled myself for a long fight on the phone,
getting ready to sit on hold and be transferred from person to person
while they tried to stall me long enough to give up. I prepared my soul
for the endless ridiculous troubleshooting steps that they'd send me
through repeatedly. Then I dialed.
 
 I didn't wait on hold at all. I got straight through to a technician,
Michael. Michael asked me a couple of fairly simple questions regarding
the problem I was seeing and the steps I'd already taken to solve it.
After around three minutes of answering questions, he offered me a
"waived fee" (reads: free!) repair. No fight, no hassle, no hold time,
no transfers.
 
 Holy shit.
 
 He told me he'd email me the information to send in with my PS2 to the
repair facility. I thanked him and hung up. Sure enough, the info I
needed was in my inbox this morning. If this all goes well, I'm going to
fill out a positive feedback form for these guys. That just rocks.
 
 Got my chores done reasonably quickly and had some time to just sit
down and relax. Watched a little TV. That sort of thing. Honestly, I
don't remember a lot of what went on because I was feeling generally
good and overall just relaxed.
 
 Saturday night Jenn and I went to see
[*Elf*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0319343/). That movie was *too
funny*. I love [Will Ferrell](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0002071/)
anyway, but in this he was too much. I laughed totally hard and felt
completely justified in spending my \$8 to see it. I'll be getting it
when it comes out on DVD and will add it to my standard holiday
rotation.
 
 Sunday...
 
 Ugh.
 
 I don't have a lot of Good Days, so I revelled in Saturday's glory.
Everything about Saturday rocked. I was in a good mood all day long,
things generally went my way, I didn't have to stress about things or
feel like I needed to fight people to get things done. It was great.
 
 Sunday, on the other hand, I could probably have done without. I ended
up going to the mall to the local Cost Plus World Market to pick up some
spices I wasn't able to get at the grocery store. Of course, they were
understaffed at the checkout line and I got behind two people buying 20+
glass items, each of which had to be individually hand-wrapped and
packaged... It took me like an hour to buy three packets of spices.
 
 My parents each called me to "helpfully" inform me that, even though
they're not moving anywhere for months, they drug down *12 boxes* of
schoolwork from the attic that I have to go through. Normally I'd say
"pitch it all" but it's not just mine - it's mixed in with my sisters'
stuff. And I'd like to have my trophies and things, so I guess I'll be
going through boxes this weekend, exactly what I wanted to do.
 
 Which got me stewing over the upcoming holiday weekend.
 
 I hate holiday weekends. Why? Because they're not restful. All holidays
do for me is generate stress and irritibility.
 
 I don't like turkey. I don't like ham. Don't ask me why, I just don't.
Weird? Maybe, but I'm sure you can think of a few foods you're not too
partial to, also. But you know what holiday "feasts" consist of? You
guessed it. We had lobster one year. That was great. I remember a year
we had Chinese food, too, and that was really cool. The rest of the
time, ugh. (Luckily, Jenn's family is eating long before mine, and
Jenn's family is going to an all you can eat buffet - anything you want.
That's *perfect* as far as I'm concerned. I'll fill up there and then
just "make an appearance" at my family's dinner.)
 
 I don't like family gatherings. I don't really have anything to say to
people. Folks ask me what I've been doing at work, but there's no point
in trying to explain it because the people *at work don't understand
what I do*. All that ends up doing is causing a glazed look on whoever
I'm talking to, which further irritates me.
 
 I don't like the lack of coordination and scheduling. I don't like
driving all over hell and back trying to make it to everyone's house
because everyone wants to "see me."
 
 What the holiday ends up being is less a holiday and more a "try to
please everyone else" fest. Fuck that shit. I'm going to fucking snap
one of these years and then... well, just you wait. They'll be talking
about it for generations to come.
 
 Anyway, the long and the short of it is - I have a four day weekend
coming that I was hoping was going to be one day of hectic shit and
three days of rest and relaxation. Instead I've got one day of hectic
shit, one day of going through boxes of shit, and two days of trying to
calm down and chill out before Monday shows up again to piss me off.
What a waste of paid time off. I should have just opted to work through
it so I'd have an excuse to not have to deal with any of it. At least
I'd be able to get something done in the office with no one there.
