---
layout: post
title: "Traffic Asshole of the Week"
date: 2003-09-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 354
tags: [Traffic]
---
Saw a good suggestion from [Marty](http://www.mildperil.net/blog/) to
have a *Traffic Asshole of the Week* feature, so I'll start that up and
try to keep it going. I usually have no shortage of candidates for the
position, so it may be more than once a week. But maybe not. Let's just
try this out and see how she goes, shall we?
 
 The Traffic Asshole of the Week will be anyone who has trouble properly
working with their automobile. This could be someone who can't drive,
someone who can't figure out the rules of the road, or even someone who
can't comprehend the concept of parking.
 
 There were three candidates for Traffic Asshole of the Week just
yesterday, so let's run them down in ascending order.
 
 In third place, and probably in the Traffic Asshole Hall of Fame, are
my neighbors, who were, once again, [parked in the fire lane and
effectively blocking me from my parking
spot](/archive/2003/08/25/parking-in-the-fire-lane.aspx).
 
 In second place is a guy in a U-Haul truck that I saw on my way home
from work yesterday. At the intersection of highways 26 and 217 (for
those in the cheap seats, these are two really busy, terrible commuter
freeways), there was an SUV parked in the emergency lane with its hood
up. U-Haul truck guy, towing a Mercedes behind the truck, decided it
would be nice to stop and help SUV guy, so U-Haul guy *parks the truck
in the fast lane* and gets out. As I passed, the U-Haul was sitting
there, driver's door hanging open, with the U-Haul driver talking to the
SUV driver. Good job, buddy.
 
 And in first place... I came out of work, ready to go home last
evening, when I was greeted with the sight of *yet another SUV owner who
doesn't know how to park*. Check this shit out:
 
 ![Wow, that looks a little close... (8k
image)](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2prnNFIjtfTM-HoICM24i-dIVi0NUfobSlTD06MSq_fuqmnmCy2UGvCG5dMh1GaAs0PLu_CTsZ7_xDCMP-zlWdvIkIBblBJMgnLAgdJku3OaI/20030911closepark1.jpg?psid=1)
 
 Hey, doesn't that look a little close? I thought so, but I figured I'd
just sort of squeeze my ass in my door and call it a day. But when I
opened my door...
 
 ![Next time, leave me a can opener! (10k
image)](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pgeVksS963HmlEeXXGfT0LMXCyXe9_xe80k5Pbjg4LVJjDuIdbK9r_3UqbB7yg3Nbj-U-6NoUppuu1KGzoBWIlcJ-LFZWvJPh-ySTe4nRsog/20030911closepark2.jpg?psid=1)
 
 ...I found that the guy had actually parked so close that I couldn't
even fit my leg inside. Next time, leave me a fucking can opener,
*asshole*.
 
 This just goes to prove that SUVs are the bane of human existence. Not
only are they resource guzzlers, but they are driven by idiots and
soccer moms who never go offroad and never actually have to haul
anything. (My parents bought his-and-hers Ford Explorers, and they're
*well aware* of my feelings about that.)
 
 If you're going to own an SUV, at least learn how to park it. Yes, that
may mean you get out of the truck and see that, "Oh, shit, I didn't park
very well." *Get back in the truck and fix it, shithead.* "Whoopsie!"
and walking into the store (or wherever) doesn't make it so I can get
into my vehicle. Oh, and understand this: Your SUV is *not compact*, so
don't try to park it in a compact spot. It's not going to work. Learn to
fucking park, or don't drive the SUV. *It's that simple.*
