---
layout: post
title: "Weekend Travels"
date: 2003-08-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 324
tags: [personal]
---
Last night while I was watching movies, our kitchen sink started
dripping so I had to turn the water off and go down to the apartment
office this morning. The repair people still aren't here and I'd like to
use the kitchen sink, if you know what I mean. I'm tempted to fix it
myself, but... nah.

 Jenn's at work today, so I'm tooling around alone. I decided that I
should go to [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) to get a look at the
chairs and tables they had since (thank goodness) our dining room set
sold at my parents' garage sale. (For a while there I thought I was
going to have to go the classified ad route and fight this thing out the
door, but got lucky.)

 I found that Fred's had the chairs I want, but no matching table.
Looking online, I found [a nice set I
liked](http://www.furniturefind.com/Hillsdale/HD-BordeauxBistro.htm),
but for more than I am really willing to put out. So now I'm going to
have to keep looking.

 While at Fred's, I picked up the [*SNL: Best of Will
Ferrell*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000A1HPU/mhsvortex)
DVD because, hey, it's got [Turd
Ferguson](/archive/2002/08/27/turd-ferguson.aspx) on it and I can't pass
that up. My Turd Ferguson t-shirts may soon become a reality.

 ![Giant Inflatable
Mario](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2p-70PSYSV1G-fwTO3buqnMsXCHPsCHN1UTegDZx50b5pjHyx0_1dma4uC0vUk-G5ViRolVkHD9Hyeuq1WJHnnP5wPLv2zTVGCcKCsO-D5fGc/20030816mario.jpg?psid=1)Decided
then to go to The Wherehouse to look at the used CD selection. On the
way there, saw that a video game shop had a giant inflatable Mario
standing on top. I need one of those for my cubicle at work.

 Anyway, picked up [Opus III - *Mind
Fruit*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002JPG/mhsvortex) and
[Red Hot Chili Peppers - *Blood Sugar Sex
Magik*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000002LQR/mhsvortex).
Then decided to head over to my parents' to see how the garage sale was
going.

 My dad, as usual, tried to pawn off all of his unsold stuff on me,
which I, of course, denied because it was all junk. At the time, my
table hadn't sold yet and I was worried for a while that it wasn't going
to, but by the time I got home, Mom called to say that just as soon as I
left, someone came along and bought it. Crisis averted.

 ![Tiny, fix your
ear!](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2piSiP_uIE_8hnubS7zThD0YT3FXV8c1Xohz5dR3X3fIWQbk2PdQjyOCtpxs7dXIpmyfSlbaraRXtHGr-cT1kkgNvSRMIYpMnaEcEgn9gx-Yk/20030816tinyear.jpg?psid=1)Got
home and found my tiny cat sleeping with her ear all wonky. That's
pretty typical for her. I wonder how she can think that's comfortable.
Then again, maybe she doesn't even notice.

 And while I've been typing this stuff up and surfing the web, Jenn's
sister - knowing that Jenn's at work - has left two voicemails already.
Ridiculous. *She's not home, so don't call here for her.* Sigh.

 I'm liking the whole picture-taking-thing here. What do you all think?
Are pictures really worth a thousand words?
