---
layout: post
title: "Lost and Found"
date: 2003-01-13 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 193
tags: [personal]
---
I finally got in contact with Dave, the facilities guy, regarding [my
lost *Tron* figure](/archive/2003/01/09/land-of-the-lost.aspx). He made
it sound like he had some sort of grabbing or reaching device I could
borrow, and that got my hopes up.

 He had a *broom*.

 Had I known I was waiting for the opportunity to borrow a broom, I
probably would have continued my pen-taping efforts. But I didn't, so I
didn't.

 The broom worked pretty well. I taped a couple of paper clips to the
end to form a reasonably stable hook and after a couple minutes of
fishing, I was set to go. I fished the figure out of the depths and it
emerged wearing a small coat made out of dust bunny fur. Apparently it
had been down there longer than I realized.

 The *Tron* populace reunited, I moved them to a more secure location
where they won't fall back behind there. Should that happen, I will
probably make the [suggested trip to Home
Depot](/archive/2003/01/09/land-of-the-lost.aspx) to fashion a more
stable fishing mechanism.

 In other news, the weekend came and went uneventfully. I bought
[*Introducing the Hardline According to Terence Trent
D'Arby*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000026DG/mhsvortex) at
the local [Wherehouse](http://www.wherehousemusic.com/) and am
reasonably pleased with the purchase. I am trying to conserve funds now
that I've gotten my Visa bills from the holiday season, so I admit to
having my fair share of buyer's remorse over the $8 purchase. I'm
enjoying the music, though, so I can't be too hard on myself.

 Speaking of buyer's remorse, Jenn and I went to the new [Whole
Foods](http://www.wholefoods.com/) store in downtown Portland and both
of us were quite impressed. They offer a wide array of very interesting
and uncommon foods there that were fun to look at, though the pricing on
them made it unreasonable to shop there on a regular basis. In order to
get our parking validated we had to buy something, so I bought a jar of
mango salsa and a macadamia nut candy bar. The candy bar, we knew, was
$2, but it was something new to try so we ignored the ridiculous cost
for an item probably 2"x1"x1" in size. The mango salsa was another
story.

 We tried a sample of the stuff and fell in love with it so we had to
pick up a jar... but there was no price on it. I'm normally smart enough
to know the "if you have to ask, you can't afford it" rule, but I was
blinded by flavor. (Figure *that* one out!) At checkout, I found the jar
of salsa cost me *$6*! *Holy shit!*

 So we left the store with our candy bar and our salsa, $8 lighter but
with validated parking. All in all, a rather successful trip. I still
can't believe it was $6 for that salsa, though.
