---
layout: post
title: "Friday, Friday (La la... la la la...)"
date: 2003-02-07 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 209
tags: [movies,business]
---
You sort of have to read that with [The Mamas and
Papas](http://www.mathematik.uni-ulm.de/paul/lyrics/mamasandpapas/monday~1.html)
in mind.

 I'm so glad that it's Friday. This week has been total hell and I'm
pretty pleased that it's around eight hours until it's all over. I've
got a stack of DVDs sitting on my coffee table at home that have been
calling to me, and I think I will sit my fat ass down on the couch and
soak up a little of that.

 This weekend is looking to be pretty busy. On Saturday Jenn and I are
going to go play Laser Tag with our friends Jason and Tracy. Sunday
we're going to see [*Shanghai
Knights*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0300471) with my friend Torin. I'm
still considering going to that William Gibson book signing downtown,
but if I'm in the same mood then as I am now, I'll skip it in favor of
taking a break.

 I have to interview an intern candidate today. I have interviewed job
applicants before, but it's been a while, so I thought about the
questions I wanted to ask. We're doing sort of a "panel" interview,
where the whole team will interview the person at the same time. What I
want to avoid are those questions like "Please describe to me a time
where you demonstrated problem solving skills." That's not even really a
question, is it? Anyway, those sorts of questions are so utterly
uncreative and intimidating that it's hard to think that anyone could
give a realistic, decent answer. With questions like that, the entire
thing is skewed so the person will respond the way they think you want
them to respond.

 Instead, I like to go a more creative route. I'll ask the standard
"What interests you about the position?" style questions, but I like to
see the person's problem solving skills. The two questions I've settled
on are: "Why are manhole covers round?" and "How would you determine the
number of tires sold in the US last year?"

 The manhole cover question [actually has an
answer](http://www.coolquiz.com/trivia/explain/docs/manholes.asp). If
they know, fine. If not, you get to see them think about why that might
be. The tire question is something I stole from my old boss; it's good
to see (and hear) the process the person would go through to figure
something like that out so that you can get a little insight into the
way they would work in a problem solving situation.

 I thought about asking more brain-teaser-oriented questions, but
looking up brain teasers online yielded mostly math-related questions.
I'm not here to test the candidate's math skills; I just want to see
their problem solving process.

 If I'm up to it, I may go through this mathematical proof that one of
my college professors showed us that proves 0 = 1. There's an error in
it, and the trick is to see if the person was paying attention and can
find where the error lies. It might be a little beyond just a high
school level math course, though (I can't remember what sort of math
they teach in high school... has it been too long for me?), so I will
probably leave that in my bag of tricks for some later time.
