---
layout: post
title: "Bits and Pieces From Deep Down"
date: 2003-01-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 202
tags: [personal,movies]
---
Lots of stuff to get through today, but due to the [latest exciting
virus that's going
around](http://www.microsoft.com/security/slammer.asp), I don't have a
lot of time to put it all in and integrate *fancy segues* and so forth.
So it'll be a little random, but that's how it's gotta be.

 I have this *thing* for orange marmalade. I'm really not a
peanut-butter-and-jelly kind of guy, but when you slap a little of that
orange zestiness on some bread, I'm sucked in. It's got a sort of *bite*
to it, like it's giving you attitude just for eating it. It makes me
want more, regardless of whether I'm full or not.

 Hung out with my friend Aaron this weekend. He's moving down to San
Diego, CA, this week, never to be heard from again by the likes of me.
Apparently he's roped himself a job of wondrous proportions, passing up
a reasonable opportunity up here in Portland, OR, to move away from
friends and family and live in the heat. (Actually, he has some family
sort of close to there, I guess, but there's a lot of prep work picking
up and moving down there that I don't know I'd be ready to undertake.)
We wish him well in his endeavors, and will probably be visiting him
come time for the next [San Diego Comic
Con](http://www.comic-con.org/).

 In the meantime, he referred me to the place here in Portland at which
he passed up an offer. It looked to me like it might be for a little
more money than I'm getting now, but the [rather short] description I
saw of the position looked like I might have a great deal less freedom
and opportunity than I have in my current position. That scares me; I've
always maintained "I'm not in it for the money," and though more money
than what I'm getting now would be *very nice*, I more than highly value
the learning and implementation opportunities availed me by my current
job.

 Went to see [*Darkness Falls*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0282209) this
weekend. After [downloading the first ten minutes of it from
Yahoo!](http://movies.yahoo.com/movies/feature/darknessfalls.html), Jenn
and I were totally sucked in. It ended up being rather enjoyable, if a
bit predictable, and it maintained a good sense of humor throughout. I
don't know that I'll be picking it up on DVD, but I don't feel that my
money was wasted at all.

 Rented a couple movies this weekend
([*Barbershop*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006RVJR/mhsvortex),
[*Soul
Assassin*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006JDRI/mhsvortex)),
borrowed one from my parents ([*About A
Boy*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JL7Q/mhsvortex)) and
bought one at Costco ([*Undercover
Brother*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000071ZZJ/mhsvortex)),
but only ended up watching one (*Barbershop*).

 *Barbershop* was okay. It wasn't as funny as I had hoped it would be...
or maybe I just missed something. I will admit that while I watched it I
felt a little... uh... *conspicuous being a caucasian*... but I had a
good time with it and loved the performance from [Cedric the
Entertainer](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Cedric+the+Entertainer).

 On Saturday we went down to one of those storage places and got a 5'x5'
closet for $40/month. So far we've been able to move the bed out of the
spare bedroom and several boxes of unused items into the closet. I'm
really excited to be able to reclaim a little space around our
apartment. I'm really feeling cramped and exceptionally frustrated with
the current setup, necessitating change. The last thing we have to move
into the closet is this stand-up display case I have a bunch of action
figures stored in. The problem is, I can't find the key to it. It used
to be taped up on the top of the display case, but it's not there now...
so where is it? I've got a key on the ring of keys I have at work that I
don't know what goes to; I think I may have accidentally put it on
there. I'll take it home and check it out. If that doesn't work, I guess
I'll either hire a locksmith or [get a lock pick
kit](http://shop.store.yahoo.com/centsible-security/locpicsup.html).
(There's this [*Kwick
Pick*](http://shop.store.yahoo.com/buybidwin/kwickpick.html) thing that
I'm sort of interested in... maybe it's time?)

 My parents are thinking of going to Hawaii at the end of this summer.
We were invited to go along, but it's looking like it'll cost around
$2000 to go for a week (for both Jenn and I). That's a little rich for
my blood, so it's not looking like it's going to happen. Maybe I should
look at the higher paying job after all...?
