---
layout: post
title: "The Right Reasons"
date: 2003-01-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 195
tags: [General Ramblings,GeekSpeak,Gaming]
---
After performing some serious research into the matter, I've come to the
firm conclusion that, yes, [SharePoint Portal Server 2001 SP2 *does
break SharePoint Portal Server*](/archive/2003/01/08/night-shift.aspx).
 
 Thinking about that has me stewing. You see, there are a lot of product
fixes in that service pack that I need right now - several problems I
have will be solved by it. Unfortunately, it introduces some fairly
large problems that are significantly worse than my existing problems,
so I can't use it. For that reason, I am developing a love/hate
relationship with Microsoft.
 
 A lot of people really hate Microsoft. I understand that, but I think
that many of those folks hate Microsoft for the wrong reasons. "They
charge too much for their products" is the wrong reason. You don't have
to buy them. "They make everything proprietary" is the wrong reason. I
think we can all agree that Windows is pretty ubiquitous and we should
learn to live with it. "When you buy some of their products they don't
work and then *they* charge *you* money to fix *their* products" is the
right reason. I hate them for all the right reasons.
 
 [*Buffy*](http://www.buffy.com) wasn't on last night, which was
disappointing. Instead of watching that, I fired up the latest demo disc
from [*Official Playstation Magazine*](http://www.gamers.com/). I was
very pleasantly surprised with a game called [*The
Getaway*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006Z7I3/mhsvortex).
 
 *The Getaway* is like an interactive British gangster movie. They
recreated London entirely in virtual data - every street, every
building, all exactly where it's supposed to be. They put actual cars on
the streets (not like made-up cars, but actual cars like Mercedes and
Lexus). Then they put a great story in it and mixed it together. I
played the demo on this thing for probably half an hour (it took me a
bit to get used to the controls and such) and was constantly amazed at
how cool it is. It's not like [*Grand Theft Auto: Vice
City*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000696CZ/mhsvortex) the
way you might think it is - they really did go for the "interactive
movie" experience and I think they acheived it. I'll probably be picking
this up when it comes out.
 
 We've had a problem with my little Xev cat (aka "Tiny Tiny") sitting
outside our bedroom door and crying at all hours of the night. She
doesn't give up, either - if you ignore her, she'll just keep crying.
This can go on for half an hour, if not longer. To combat it, Jenn will
usually get up (she can't ignore it or sleep through it) and go out to
sleep on the couch with the cats. Not so great, right? I thought of the
answer last night.
 
 A while ago we bought this thing called a "Scat Mat" to stop Xev from
jumping up on top of the entertainment center and knocking everything
down. Basically it's a pad about five feet long and one foot wide that
is pressure sensitive. When the pad feels pressure, it emits this really
loud chirping noise. That's worked like a charm for the entertainment
center.
 
 I put the "Scat Mat" outside our bedroom door so the cat couldn't just
sleep right outside the door and cry whenever she felt like it - she'd
have to sit back a few feet and cry from the other room. If anything, I
figured it would lower the volume of the crying; a few feet away from
the door is better than right next to (or under) the door.
 
 Last night was the first night I set the thing out there. She stepped
on it exactly twice - once right after we went to bed, then once at
about 3:00a at her normal "wake up the humans" time. Never once did the
cat cry all night long. *I am the smartest man alive.*
 
 Now, as long as she doesn't figure out that she can still cry from the
other room, we're totally in business. She's a shrewd little beast,
though, so we'll have to see.
