---
layout: post
title: "Memorial Rant"
date: 2003-09-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 353
tags: [personal]
---
I realize that the whole September 11 attack thing was a really tragic,
terrible occurrence. Am I the only one in the world who thinks society
would be better served by remembering *but moving on*? It seems to me
that folks seem just a little *too* emotional about the whole thing.

 For example, New York wants to build new stuff on the site of the old
World Trade Center twin towers. I think that's great - a positive action
moving forward with a memorial statue or something on the grounds. But
there are all these protesters who are concerned with the fact that the
new building may not use the *same foundation* as the old building...
What difference does it make? It's called *a new building*, not
*rebuilding the old twin towers*. There are limits to my abilities to
respect tragedies like this, especially in regards to people who are so
emotional they can't rationally contribute to a positive comeback.

 Oh, and (admittedly selfish, but) let me say how *tired* I am of
hearing about it on the news. Seriously. *Move on.*

 As mentioned previously, Jenn's birthday is coming up. I, as always,
ended up ordering stuff from Amazon. Now, usually Amazon is pretty good
with their packaging. They throw whatever it is into a plain brown box
(porn style, right?) and it's a mystery what's inside. Is it your whole
order? Half the order? One thing? A bunch of things? Who knows? Knowing
that, I figured I'd be okay shipping everything to our apartment. Add a
little pre-birthday mystery to the gifts. Imagine my surprise, then,
when I see this (which Jenn has pulled in from the doorstep):

 ![Amazon - So discreet! (6k
image)](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pM5JvZr3Mxrzfd147N8rtN-ogNd4yIqbDe6Q2IRH0gMIQSsr4T7PqPAjQS-M1016pImBqyXV_BVHGL_bX6uwr0LvuUJidKMQ85-M6YbtCfQc/20030911amazonmorons.jpg?psid=1)

 Hey, Amazon! Thanks! I wonder what's in *that* box?!

 Morons.

 ![Misappropriation of resources? (6k
image)](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pxeg0U8Oh-X5YjLxTTuv1X_SEl9D7hxS0CfM9nwwDJdtRZ7UPEyQpwMaYdrhSIV2hMhyiMV01O1fi_llCEMWrRtA3qhTiIS_D6xuUFOipPZk/20030911washingtoncop.jpg?psid=1)On
my way home from work yesterday I noticed a cop in front of me in an
unfamiliar car. On closer inspection, it was a *Washington* cop. What
are Washington cops doing patrolling 20 minutes south of the border? Or
is it a joyride? Misappropriation of resources? Hmmm...

 I saw that [Marty](http://www.mildperil.net/blog) suggested a new
potential feature, *Traffic Asshole of the Week*. I think that's a
pretty keen idea, and no sooner had he recommended it than I had
*multiple candidates in a day*. So I'll get on that next.
