---
layout: post
title: "Stacy's Mom"
date: 2003-07-31 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 308
tags: [General Ramblings,Media,GeekSpeak]
---
Man, it's been a couple of days since I poked my head in here, but lots
has happened since Monday.
 
 Well, let me think about that for a sec...
 
 Maybe not *lots* so much as *stuff*.
 
 First, I went out and bought the Fountains of Wayne album [*Welcome
Interstate
Managers*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00009QGF2/mhsvortex).
It's got a song called "Stacy's Mom" that rocks. Besides which, it's
pretty funny, so all the better. That was, uh... Monday night. Yeah.
Maybe I should tell this all chronologically instead of just the order
in which I remember things.
 
 Monday night Jenn took me out to Olive Garden for a nice Italian dinner
because [I passed my test](/archive/2003/07/28/database-mastah.aspx).
After that, I headed over to the music store where I picked up the
Fountains of Wayne album, simply because I couldn't get the song out of
my head. That pretty much capped off that night.
 
 Tuesday I went to the store to get a
[Firewire](http://www.apple.com/firewire/) card so I can sync [my
iPod](/archive/2003/07/25/the-late-show.aspx) faster. Installed that,
and realized after installing it that my whole laptop was sort of
screwed up anyway so I decided it would need to be rebuilt... but not
right then. Installed [ephPod](http://www.ephpod.com) because
[Musicmatch Jukebox](http://www.musicmatch.com) (the software that comes
with iPod for Windows) is total crap. The only reason I left it on the
computer was because the Apple "iPod Manager" software - which *should*
allow you to connect and disconnect the iPod from your compute - doesn't
really work too well, while the MusicMatch thing works a little better.
 
 Wednesday I couldn't handle all the errors on the laptop anymore so I
got a new hard drive for the laptop (faster and twice the size) and
reinstalled everything from the ground up. By the end of the day I had
almost, but not quite, everything back up and running.
 
 Wednesday night, Jenn and I watched a movie called [*15
Minutes*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005LDDD/mhsvortex)
about some murderers who videotape their crimes so they can sell the
tapes to the media. Eh. I'm glad I didn't see it in the theater. Love
the digital cable.
 
 Which brings us to today, Thursday. I got the iPod working this morning
and I'm noticing that the "mount" and "unmount" functions are not
terribly reliable. "What," the technically challenged might ask,
"precisely does that mean?" Well, when you connect your iPod to the
computer, the computer "recognizes" it and then "attaches" to it so that
you can put your music on it. That process is referred to as "mounting"
the iPod. The thing is, when it's done synchronizing, you can't just
jerk it off the computer - you have to "unmount" it, or, more simply
put, you have to tell the computer you're done so it will let go of the
iPod (otherwise you could corrupt stuff - sort of like shutting off your
computer without using the "shut down" function). This process of
"mounting" and "unmounting" is not the fastest or most reliable thing in
the world. It can take like 10 or 20 seconds to "mount" the iPod, and
then pending on what you do, it may *never* successfully "unmount," at
which point you have to disconnect it and do a little reset operation
(which isn't *bad* per se, but it's a pain).
 
 Regardless, I'm still digging the iPod, and will have to put more stuff
on it.
 
 I've been studying for my next Microsoft exam, which will be on
Programming Windows Applications in C\#. Looking at the practice test
questions, I'm already feeling pretty comfortable. I'm going to talk to
a friend of mine who has used the same practice test company (different
test, same manufacturer) to see how close the practice test is to the
real thing. If it's really close, I'll schedule this next one up. It's
pretty common sense stuff.
 
 Finally, my friend [Marty](http://www.mildperil.net/) has potentially
offered me some server space to move to, so I may be able to expand my
offerings to you fine folks out there. Maybe post pictures and things
more often, and who knows what else? I'm going to talk to him and see
what that's all about. In the meantime, go check out
[MildPeril](http://www.mildperil.net/) and see what he has to say.
