---
layout: post
title: "Almost pMachined"
date: 2003-11-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 398
tags: [blog]
---
I've almost got my implementation of pMachine ready to go. I worked a
bit on the templates and such and think I've just about got it set for
prime time. I just need to figure out how to import my Greymatter
entries in there and I'll be set. After that, it'll be a matter of
importing things in, then messing around getting the uploaded images and
whatnot to show up correctly.

 This weekend was supposed to be relaxing, but I'm feeling pretty wiped
out right now. Saturday we did our usual chores, but Sunday we actively
did *nothing*. Jenn got kind of bored and ended up going grocery
shopping, but I got a chance to watch a couple of the DVDs I've recently
purchased and catch up on my Playstation time.

 At the time, I thought it was kind of nice and rather interesting to be
bored - I'm usually going so much or have so much on my mind that I
don't just get to sit down and relax. Looking back on it now, I realize
that having nothing to do stresses me out. I can't just sit and relax
because I always have this nagging feeling that there's something that
has to be done.

 To that effect, I woke up this morning totally wiped out, and I'm still
dragging. I find that it takes me the two days of the weekend to *get
ready* to unwind, then by the time the weekend is over, I'm finally
getting decent sleep and would love to take the time to actually, truly
unwind but it's already time for work again. It's a losing proposition.

 I really need to replace the battery in my camera. Wouldn't you know
it, but as soon as the battery runs out on the damn thing, I end up
finding *buttloads* of candidates for Traffic Asshole of the Week.

 Speaking of cameras, I tried out this other camera that we have, the
[SiPix StyleCam
Blink](http://www.sipixdigital.com/cameras/styleblink/index.shtml). It's
this tiny camera, similar to the camera that I use to take the Traffic
Asshole pictures, the [Che-ez
Splash](http://www.che-ez.com/english/splash/index.html). I like the
quality (if you can call it that) of the Che-ez camera better than the
SiPix - the SiPix is really grainy while the Che-ez is smooth. I guess
we're talking the least of two evils, but for those in the market for an
affordable, portable digital camera, I'd go with the Splash.

 I got my new modem today, so I think I'll go home and try installing
that bad boy into my new computer. I still need to put the SCSI
controller in, too, so I'll do it all at the same time.
