---
layout: post
title: "Programming with the .NET Framework, Part 4"
date: 2003-07-17 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 300
tags: [net,personal]
---
*9:31a*

 I've entirely lost track of my concept of time. I had to look at the
calendar today to figure out it's Thursday.

 It being Thursday means that I only have one more night here and then I
go home tomorrow after class. It'll be nice to get home, to sleep in my
own bed, to see Jenn and my kitties again. I will admit I'm a little
lonely sitting in my hotel room at night, but the flipside is that I
don't have any distractions while I study.

 Speaking of studying, I took a practice test on SQL Server last night.
It took about two hours to go through 50 questions (I was in "learning"
mode, so I was reading about WHY certain answers were right or wrong).
When all was said and done, I got around 60% correct.

 I *was* pretty confident about my SQL Server skills before I took that
practice test. Taking the test showed me that I don't know *jack squat*.
Now I'm feeling pretty disheartened about my whole learning experience
because I thought these classes I was taking would prepare me, or at
least *better* prepare me, for the Microsoft Certified Solutions
Developer tests. I'm not so sure about it anymore. I mean, I'm learning
a *lot of stuff*. The problem I'm having is that tests are not
real-world. When will I ever be programming when I don't have access to
the help docs?

 So, needless to say, I'm a little down today. I told Jenn about it and
she was all, "Doesn't it make you happy that not everything comes easy?"
No, I'm not. It's about the unrealistic nature of the tests. It's about
the fact that *everything* I do anymore is an uphill battle - work *and*
school. It's that this is exactly everything I hated about high school
and college. It's all of this pressure and all of this "challenge" all
coming crashing back on me and inducing fits of anxiety, stressing me
out.

 I feel like I'm a good programmer. I think there are people out there
who would agree with that. I also think that I'm really going to have
problems with these tests, and at $125 a pop, I really can't afford to
fail.

 *10:52a*

 I went cruising Amazon to see what sorts of study aids they have in
print. There are all sorts of books, priced $25 - $40, none of which
looked like they were "foolproof" or "all-inclusive." I then see random
boot camps and schools that promise certification "in 8 days -
*guaranteed*." It makes me wonder if that would have been a better
investment. But then, I think I'm probably getting some better, more
well-rounded knowledge out of these classes.

 I'm just wondering if it'll help me pass these tests.

 *11:04a*

 Have you ever said a word over and over enough times that it starts
sounding funny and you don't remember what it means? The word of the day
is "dispose."

 *11:33a*

 I was thinking about this (while sitting in class)... my job has made
me a programming
[Sisyphus](http://www.pantheon.org/articles/s/sisyphus.html).

 *12:23p*

 I just went through a lab on memory management (making sure your
program doesn't eat all of your computer's memory) and while I
understood it, and I think I could implement it myself, I didn't like
the lab very much. The way things were written/phrased, it was really
difficult to figure out what they were trying to get you to do. I ended
up having to refer to the solution, and I haven't had to do that for any
of the class labs I've had yet.

 It reminds me of that game where you give a friend a pencil and a piece
of paper and you have a picture of something that you're looking at (and
your friend can't see). The object is to describe to your friend what
they need to draw on their paper so they come up with a picture that
looks like the one you're holding. If you've never done that, try it.
It's harder than you might think. For simple stuff (a house, a flag, a
can of cola), it's not too bad - you can sort of refer to simple shapes
("draw a circle, then draw a couple parallel lines coming from the sides
of the circle..."). If you have something more complex, like an office
chair, it gets a heck of a lot harder. This lab was like someone trying
to describe to me how to draw a Picasso piece. Crazy.

 *2:02p*

 Still panicking about the exams and my lack of preparation. I went
looking to see what Microsoft offers as far as test preparation material
- lists of what they're asking questions on, suggested preparation
materials, etc. - and there's nothing I can see that would help me. The
lists of question topics are sufficiently vague that they may as well
say, "We're just, you know, *testing you*." Thanks.

 You're probably tired of reading about my study anxiety. I'm tired of
thinking about it. It's just sort of sitting at the front of my mind,
though, and it's hard to get away from.

 *3:04p*

 Finally, an old person who realizes that [sometimes you *do get too old
to drive*](http://www.msnbc.com/news/934701.asp?cp1=1). And one who
[didn't figure it out soon
enough](http://www.msnbc.com/news/939947.asp). My 80+ year old neighbors
who drive these gigantic antique Cadillacs should read these articles.

 *5:06p*

 That's the end of today. We just did an interesting lab where we
created a simple server app that can accept connections from clients and
sends information. Just a little thing, but it demonstrates that you can
do some powerful stuff in a simple way with .NET.

 Just watch - I *get* this, but it won't be on the test. The stuff I
*don't get* will be there.
