---
layout: post
title: "Snack Food"
date: 2003-05-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 261
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Memorial Day weekend. Eh. As you can see, I'm working Memorial Day, so
it wasn't really the three-day weekend that everyone else got. I'll be
taking Friday off instead, since I've got training Wednesday and
Thursday and really didn't feel like working Tuesday-Friday. I mean, how
am I supposed to get stuff done like that? So I'm working
Monday-Tuesday, training Wednesday-Thursday, then Friday off.
 
 Really didn't do much this weekend. After getting all of my bills
together and ready to pay next weekend, I found that the amount of money
for all the bills is roughly equivalent to the amount of take-home pay
I'm getting, so we don't have much of an entertainment budget. Let me
tell you who can't wait until Jenn picks up a *decent paying job*. It's
been a long time coming. Two weeks before she is finished with the
unpaid externship.
 
 We did rent [*Bad
Boys*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008R9MA/mhsvortex) and
[*The Fast and The
Furious*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008MZ0N/mhsvortex).
I hadn't seen the former, and Jenn hadn't seen the latter. Good to catch
up on movies.
 
 Aside from that, there was a lot of TV watching. At one point I was
sitting watching the [Food Network](http://www.foodtv.com/), which is
sad in-and-of itself (unless it's
[Emeril](http://www.foodtv.com/food/show_em/0,1976,FOOD_9959,00.html) or
[Jacques
Torres](http://www.foodtv.com/food/show_jt/0,1976,FOOD_9977,00.html)),
when I realized the show was something like ["The US Army
Cook-Off."](http://www.foodtv.com/food/show_sp/episode/0,1976,FOOD_9994_20679,00.html)
That was pretty much my limit. We ended up going grocery shopping (yes,
more money out of the pocket) because we didn't have much to eat around
the house.
 
 While in the store, I noticed that there are lots of different snack
foods around. Cheap, sugar filled foods. Not "snack" foods so much as
"snak" foods. I think there's a certain quality (or lack thereof)
implied in words that intentionally misspell themselves. I mean, who
wouldn't want a tasty Snak Kake, right?
 
 Oh, and we did a lot of cleaning around the house. We finally removed
the weatherproofing plastic from around our bedroom window (so we can
open it, because it's getting hot) and we went through our closets to
get rid of the clothes we never wear or the clothes that we wear waaaaay
too often and really shouldn't be worn anymore. I weeded out quite a bit
of stuff, and now I need to go clothing shopping. With, you know, all
that money I've got hanging around. Yeah, [that's the
ticket](http://snltranscripts.jt.org/85/85bliar.phtml).
