---
layout: post
title: "Synchronization"
date: 2003-05-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 254
tags: [net,personal]
---
Well, I'm back from training and, after a stressful weekend (which I
will try to post more on later), I'm here to fill you in on last week.

 Rather than summarize the happenings and lose the gory details (who'd
want that?) I kept track of the occurrences in the class as they went
along - sort of a "running commentary," if you will - and that's what
I've got for you now.

 I look back at all the crap I wrote and realize this is going to be a
LONG one. Oh, well. I guess that's what happens when you save it all up
for one entry.

 Again, keep in mind that this is from LAST week, so when I talk about
the weekend, it's LAST weekend.

 Here we go...
 I have a limited amount of Internet access from my training class, but
since it's difficult to post throughout the day while the class is going
on, I'll just type up my thoughts in Notepad as they show up in my head.
It might be sort of stream-of-consciousness, but I'll try to maintain a
reasonable sense of continuity.

 First, the weekend.

 Not much went on. Went to the barbecue on Saturday for my dad's
birthday. It was pretty good - there were burgers and chicken kebabs and
various salads and sides and eclairs and cake. All food was made by my
sister and her husband, and they always do a nice job.

 They have an interesting idea of "barbecue," though. Now, don't get me
wrong - when they make stuff, it's always very tasty. But they never
just make "a hamburger" and they don't just "grill chicken." They alwas
throw in some sort of "gourmet touch," where there's some eclectic
selection of organic spices or something applied to the food. I
appreciate that, but I think sometimes I *just want a burger*. I don't
want gourmet. I don't want super-mega-Thai-chicken-ultra-dish with a
side of magic-flavored-rice. I want greasy spoon, A-1 sauce, barbecued
*burger*.

 Maybe some teriyaki sauce, if I'm feeling daring.

 I'm not so sure about natural taro root chips in place of straight-up
Doritos. And I've never been a big fan of carrot cake, so what makes
folks wonder why I don't want *organic* carrot cake?

 (The eclairs *rocked my world*, though.)

 I'm not sure if they eat *gourmet style* all the time. They probably
do. They'd probably get bored eating at my house (which mostly consists
of processed food of some nature). Just a difference in taste, I guess.

 Oh, and the
[*Alias*](http://abc.abcnews.go.com/primetime/alias/index.html) season
finale ran on Sunday. I was glued to the TV, and when it was over I
wanted to kill someone because they threw such a curveball at the end
and I *have to know what it all means*. Those assholes really know how
to hook a guy.

 Beyond that, the weekend was pretty uneventful. On with the show.

 **Monday, May 5**

 *8:45a*

 When I got out of the shower, Jenn was in the bathroom wearing a shirt
and underwear while getting her hair prepped for the day.

 Travis: Jenn, how come your underwear are on inside-out?

 Jenn: They're not.

 Travis: Yes, they are. Look.

 Jenn: Oh, shit.

 That's how the day started.

 Got her to work on time (barely), then got to the [training
facility](http://www.sqlsoft.com) by 7:10a. Class starts at 8:30a.

 Good thing I brought my [*Alias*
book](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0553375970/mhsvortex) to
read.

 The instructor for my class is a little older than I'd expect (maybe
late 40's?). He seems to be a good guy so far, but with an interesting
sense of humor. If he asks me to try the veal or tip my server, I'm
walking out.

 He's kinda cracking me up with the little jabs he gets in at the
Microsoft products we're working with:

 Instructor: Does anyone here use this Fisher-Price operating system in
the office?

 Travis: You mean Windows XP?

 Instructor: Yeah. You'll find out by the end of the week that this
thing drives me up the wall.

 Oh, and he's walking around in his socks.

 The guys behind me are brothers. They both work at Nike and they're in
the same department. I'd kill my family if I had to work with them. I
don't know how they do it.

 *9:27a*

 I'm seven pages into the course book and I'm thinking I may be in over
my head. I mean, the class is "Building COM+ Applications using
Microsoft .NET Enterprise Services." That's heavy. The course itself is
so far living up to its title. I thought I was a pretty in-depth
programmer, but this is starting to look like some serious *low-level*
shit. I thought I got out of this when I graduated, but it's looking
like I'm back in the hole.

 I guess we'll see more as time goes on.

 I'm tired and thirsty. I hope we take a break soon.

 *9:42a*

 We're getting a little sidetracked with him showing us some sort of
thing about something. Yes, that's as much detail as I can give you. I'm
so lost.

 *9:48a*

 I've figured it out. The instructor looks like Jon Voight. But he sort
of has a Don Knotts attitude.

 *9:53a*

 They're discussing something about resource allocation that I'm not
finding relevant.

 I saw a commercial for "Nu Finish" car wax this morning. Supposedly it
lasts for a full year. I wonder if it's any good. I should remember to
research that.

 *10:27a*

 Finally, a lab exercise and break. It's good to learn by doing, and I
figure things out better when I'm actually trying them out. Plus, it's
waking me up.

 I'm glad the pop is free here. I'm going to be drinking their asses out
of house and home to keep myself awake in this one.

 *10:52a*

 Just went and reseached car wax options. After following a few links, I
found [this article](http://www.nsxsc.com/nsexcitement/waxtest.html) on
the NSeXcitement Online Magazine (for Acura NSX owners, so I thought it
particularly relevant).

 Long story short, they recommend [Zaino
Brothers](http://www.zainobros.com/) products over everything else. I've
never previously heard of them, but apparently they're pretty big since
I found references to them all over the place on auto enthusiast sites.
It's mail-order only, so you have to fill out the form and mail it in
with a check, but I'm thinking I may do that. The Turtle Wax I've got is
not only a big pain to apply, but I don't feel like it offers as much
protection or glossiness as I'd like. These Zaino guys come pretty
highly recommended from all over the place. I'll probably have to order
the stuff, dedicate some time and just fix my car up.

 Plus, *no buffing*. I fucking hate buffing car wax.

 *11:44a*

 Lunchtime! I have some stuff to read about for the next section, but
other than that, it's time to go get some fatty food at Mickey-D's
(McDonald's, for those without any pop culture built in).

 *12:48p*

 Just got back from lunch. 10-piece Chicken McNuggets and a large fry (I
found a coupon at home for a free large fry so I only had to buy the
McNuggets). Drinks courtesy of the training facility. Mmmmm, tasty.

 Now, normally I wouldn't bring this up, but I've got a sort of
"feedback ethics" question for you:

 After lunch, I returned to the training facility, dropped my stuff off,
and took a dump. (That's not the point, though.) As I was wiping, I
noticed they have that shitty one-ply toilet paper that has no
perforations (you just have to rip it off arbitrarily) and is, for lack
of a better word, *harsh*.

 I remember on the course feedback form that there's an area asking if
there are "any improvements that can be made to the facility." How do
you say, "Get some real fucking toilet paper because the stuff you buy
tears at my fragile asshole?" That's not something you normally write
down on a feedback form. So what do you do?

 *1:16p*

 The computers we're using here are nice little Dell Optiplex GX150
items. Small, reasonable design. I think I should look at something like
this (at least with this style and/or shape) when I decide to upgrade.

 *1:38p*

 Geek moment - I just wrote my first COM+ assembly and a client to use
it. Don't worry if you don't know what that means; I found out this
morning.

 *1:41p*

 I think maybe I need to invest in a nose-hair trimmer.

 *2:45p*

 My boss just emailed my phone to ask a question. In the middle of
answering, my phone locked up and reset the time and everything. Fucking
phone. So now I'm totally lost and my phone won't display the proper
time.

 *2:47p*

 We're watching a demo on causality, synchronization, and thread
handling in COM+.

 Riiiiiiight.

 *3:42p*

 I just built - or, rather, *modified* (since the framework was there
with a bunch of comments) - a COM+ app that interfaces with a web page.
Honestly, I'm not even sure what this thing is doing. There's, like,
this *database*, and, uh, this *web page*, and this little code library
deal that I drummed up that somehow magically does *something* such that
it will talk to the database and pull up data. I've done that bunches of
times, but this time the data is getting passed through this sort of
service broker deal that allows me to connect to the same service from
different apps all at the same time. I think it would make it more
concrete for me if I actually had a load of different things all
jockeying for this service, but I only have the one web page, so I
suppose the point of writing this app to do its job in this particular
way is sort of lost on me. My understanding is that it will be made
clear as time goes on and we do more of the labs.

 I'm finding the ideas in here pretty nifty, how you can do all this
*stuff* but I'm still not sure how (if at all) I'll be able to apply it
to what I do daily. This is more hardcore than some of the stuff I do.
Of course, once I finish with this, I'm sure I'll find loads of problems
that this crap could solve; I just don't know it yet.

 *4:05p*

 The day is done. We were going to go to 4:30p, but there are a couple
of students having problems with their machines so we're going to
adjourn until tomorrow and the instructor's going to fix the machines up
by then.

 For the first time ever, it's not *me* having the problem. That's a
good feeling.

 **Tuesday, May 6**

 I woke up this morning more tired than yesterday. I find that odd
because I went to bed at 9:30p last night, but the night before I was in
bed around 11:15p. So how come I'm more tired even though I got less
sleep? This is the shit I puzzle on all day.

 I got my copy of the new Blue Man Group album, [*The
Complex*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008OWZD/mhsvortex),
last night from Amazon. I think I liked their first album better. The
first album had sort of a tribal, emotional feel to it. All of the songs
came together as a whole. This latest album has definite distinct songs,
this time with words, and it doesn't seem to have the impact for me of
the first. I'll have to listen to it a couple of times to really make
the call, but right now, I like their
[*Audio*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000038A2S/mhsvortex)
album better.

 I also got my copy of the 4 Strings album,
[*Believe*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008V5VR/mhsvortex).
I first heard these guys on [C89.5](http://www.c895fm.com), and I am
rather enjoying the album. It's a little formulaic (what techno isn't?)
but I'm loving it all the same. Check it out.

 I am interested in getting an MP3 player (as though I have the money
for it) but I'm not sure which one. The
[iPod](http://www.apple.com/ipod/) looks good and seems to be the most
popular, but the
[Rio](http://www.sonicblue.com/shop/_templates/cat_list.asp?cat=33)
models look good, too. Then there are the [combo MP3 player/digital
camera
devices](http://www.panasonic.com/consumer_electronics/ewear/sd_av.asp)
that appeal to my need to have one device do everything, but it seems
that it's closer to "one device that does everything *half-assed*," if
you know what I mean.

 Okay, it's about 8:30a now - class is starting up. Here we go...

 *8:40a*

 This section of the class is a high-level overview of ADO.NET. Finally,
something I'm familiar with! I'm glad, too. My brain is fried.

 *9:09a*

 Just had to leave the classroom and totally stretch my neck/back, wash
my face, and try to wake myself up. This early morning shit that Jenn's
got me doing is going to kill me.

 *9:48a*

 Heeeeeadaaaaaache.....

 *10:13a*

 I just finished the 60 minute lab in 13 minutes. I'm still not entirely
sure where this is going; I guess I'll see it when we get farther along.
Either way, looks like I've got some time on my hands. Which is fine,
because I've got a rip-roaring headache due to my intense level of
fatigue. I think if I took a four-hour nap right about now life would be
about 200 times better.

 *10:33a*

 Looks like the *Indiana Jones* movie series will [finally come out on
DVD in
November](http://story.news.yahoo.com/news?tmpl=story&cid=598&ncid=600&e=3&u=/nm/20030506/film_nm/film_jones_dc).
Took them long enough.

 *11:05a*

 There are a couple of guys in class whose machines aren't set up right,
or they're not working right or something. They had issues last night,
but the instructor supposedly fixed the issues. Now they've got them
again so we've got folks who can't do the lab work. Thank goodness it's
not me, but then, it is slowing me down. I've been sitting here for 45
minutes while they troubleshoot these damn things with no success.
Lame.

 *11:25a*

 I guess we're going to lunch until 12:30a. Which is fine, since I'm
hungry now and pretty bored.

 I went out to the [Car Toys](http://www.cartoys.com) web site to get
general pricing estimates and it looks like for a new deck, changer,
amp, and a couple of subwoofers, it'll cost me around $1200. I'll
probably need some custom installation, though, so that'll be extra.

 Put that on the list of "things to get when I have money to spend
again."

 *12:28p*

 Back from lunch. I went and had two chicken flautas at the local
supermarket deli. Authentic? No. Tasty? Somewhat. Economic? Definitely.

 The instructor is still trying to repair the broken machines. How sucky
is that? I'd hate to be him. Maybe I should offer to help.

 The receptionist's name is Kate. I could have sworn there was a guy
there yesterday, but I saw him today and he is an instructor or a tech
guy or something, so he must have been filling in temporarily. Anyway, I
figured I walk past Kate about a bazillion times a day, I should
probably know her name.

 *2:46p*

 Lab time again. This time we're working with transactions, which I
understand (at least in a database context). We'll see what this turns
up.

 *3:28p*

 Finished the lab, and this time I understood what was going on. I'm
actually starting to *get* it, now that I'm a little farther into it,
and when I look back at the code I see where things are happening.

 The stuff I'm not seeing is the actual transaction stuff in action.

 For those not in the know, a "transaction" is when you have a series of
things that have to either all succeed or they all fail. For example,
say you request $100 be transferred from your savings account to your
checking account. Two things happen - you withdraw $100 from your
savings account and you deposit $100 to your checking account. If I try
to withdraw the $100 from your savings account and you don't have
$100, the transaction fails - nothing is deposited, and the money in
your savings account is left alone. If you DO have the money in your
savings account, but your checking account is frozen, then the $100
can't be deposited... but you don't want to lose it, so the transaction
has to be "rolled back" so the money can be put back in your savings
account. If everything works properly, then the transaction is
"committed" and the $100 will be debited from savings and credited to
checking.

 Anyway, we're learning how to do that inside programs, and the code and
everything is all in place, so presumedly that's working. But I've only
ever seen a successful transaction; what happens when the thing is
rolled back? How does failure work? That's where we haven't gone yet. I
think the point they're trying to illustrate is that all this magic
takes place at some level you never have to touch; I just like to see
what's going on.

 The instructor is still working on getting the other lab computers to
work right. I'm not sure what's wrong, but it looks like some sort of
configuration issue. I did end up offering help, but I didn't see
anything in the usual places I look. I think he's in the process of
reformatting and reinstalling Windows XP. Hahahahahaha....

 *4:26p*

 I think it's just about time to go. If he's not done with the current
section in the next couple of minutes, I'm giving him the "kill" sign.

 *4:31p*

 It's time for the kill sign.

 *4:35p*

 Oookay. Done and done. Time to go home.

 **Wednesday, May 7**

 Watched [*Buffy*](http://www.buffy.com) last night and am finding that
the longer it goes on, the more I feel like it's about time the show
ended. I loved it while it was on, but I'm glad they're wrapping it up.
I don't know where else they'd take it.

 I finished my *Alias* book yesterday, so today I've started Tom
Clancy's [*The Bear and The
Dragon*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0425180964/mhsvortex).
I'm only like seven pages into it, but it's okay so far. The book is
around 1050 pages long, though, so I had best settle in for the ride.
It's going to be a long one. (I've reading the hardbound one, too, so
it's *massive*.)

 I woke up this morning a little more refreshed than I have the last
couple of days, and without a headache. I can only think of two things
that I did yesterday that I don't normally do: First, I stretched for a
few minutes before I went to bed. I'm not the most limber person ever,
but I can feel that I'm getting a little inflexible with the sitting all
day thing I've got going. Second, I played a half hour of [*Dance Dance
Revolution*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005A774/mhsvortex),
which is probably the most exercise I've gotten in the last week or
two.

 I am not very good at *Dance Dance*, but there is one song ("Boom Boom
Dollar") that I can do perfectly on the "simple" mode. I think that's
something to be proud of. Maybe. I can almost do it without watching the
screen now.

 The other songs... I like them, but I suck donkey balls at them. I can
do the really easy ones, but the faster ones have these steps that hit
on the half-beat and my feet aren't fast enough. I'd like to think I'd
be slightly better at it if we had a hard dance pad and I could wear
shoes. As it is, our soft dance pad slides around on the floor and by
the end of a fast song you're not standing in the same place you were at
the beginning. Makes it a little difficult. I may try to modify our mat
by attaching it to one of those hard plastic things that office chairs
roll around on. That might make it better (and stop it from sliding
around).

 Or I could get [the real
thing](http://www.buynshop.com/productinfophp3/VG-DDR-MPD).

 I don't have the money for it, though. I could probably [make my
own](http://www.geocities.com/ddrhomepad/), though. Maybe.

 *9:02a*

 Lab time again. This time on "Securing Network Applications." I just
got to explain how web server authentication works, though I'm not sure
how that relates to cOM+. Interesting the tangents we get off on here.

 *9:38a*

 Just got a call on my cell phone from this bitch at work who wanted to
know something about some document or another on the intranet. I tried
to be polite and say that while I may maintain the intranet servers and
provide the services that allow the site to run, I don't maintain the
content and can't vouch for it, its current state, or anything else
content-related.

 She didn't seem to like that so much, so she got snippy with a, "No, no
- LISTEN TO ME!" and then she repeated the question. Because getting
pissy with me is going to somehow enlighten me as to the status of
content I don't own.

 I will admit that I exercised a lot of restraint on that one. I think I
may have killed her had she shown that attitude in my office.

 I fucking hate people.

 *9:51a*

 Finished with the lab, after writing an explanatory note to my boss to
tell him to anticipate The Bitch calling him because I provided "poor
service." It was an interesting lab, but I'm still a little fuzzy on how
it all works together. I'm going to have to read this material over
again when the class is finished, I think.

 *10:24a*

 After a lengthy discussion on the qualities of movies today, we're
starting up the class again. This instructor guy is a kick in the
pants.

 *12:38p*

 Just got back from lunch, which started at about 11:45a, and no one is
back yet except the instructor. Huh. What a bunch of slackers.

 Before lunch I got into a big discussion about .NET garbage collection
relative to COM+. I realize the nerdy error of my ways and will try to
refrain from doing such things again.

 While sitting in the [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) parking lot
eating my burrito, I realized that the best way to describe the toilet
paper at the training facility is *aggressive*. I want to *wipe* my
asshole, not *enlarge its circumference*.

 Maybe I'll put that on my course review sheet.

 I did not get any reading done during lunch, though I suppose that's
neither here nor there. I've still got over 1000 pages left, so a little
headway isn't going to make much difference.

 *12:53p*

 Got a message from my boss saying not to worry about The Bitch from
earlier; she's like that to everyone. Good enough, then.

 *1:16p*

 Lab time again. This time on "managing component state." I'm familiar
with this in an ASP.NET context but it's a new one in COM+. Basically
the same thing, but implemented and accessed in different ways. Here
goes...

 *1:32p*

 Caching... interesting. We really only exercised the ASP.NET caching
facility, but interesting all the same. Nice that you can access ASP.NET
caching from your COM+ object.

 Little bit of a geek moment there. Sorry.

 *1:39p*

 the white noise from the cooling fans and hard drives has me sleepy as
though the machines are telling me to take a rest while they slowly move
in to kill me in my hibernating state breathing shallow bored tired and
listening to the sound of my own demise creeping in

 *1:57p*

 I just caught up on my [WWDN](http://www.wilwheaton.net) reading and
I'm ready for class to start up again. Where did the teacher go?

 My back is getting stiff and my neck is starting to hurt. This chair
sucks donkey dong. Maybe it's time to get up and pee or something.

 I think I'm forming a Vanilla Coke addiction. It's a good thing we
don't have Vanilla Coke at work or I'd be a huge pig. As it is, here at
the training facility, I've been sucking down upwards of six cans a day.
I'm sure that's not good for me.

 *2:12p*

 Found this link to the [American's Guide to
Canada](http://www.icomm.ca/emily/isms.html) over on [Tanya's
site](http://chumpco.com/~jezrial/log.html). She's probably had it there
forever, but that shows how observant I am.

 Read up on the various messed-up terminology the Canucks run with. Too
much. I'm really going to have to visit some time.

 *2:18p*

 I followed a few links around and started skimming other peoples'
blogs. There are a lot of blogs out there that make *absolutely no
sense*. I mean, like, they'll post [random thoughts or disconnected
snippets of
conversation](http://www.jasonkill.com/archive/2003_05_01_archive.html#200229383)
that hold no context for the reader.

 Do I do that? Post shit that makes no sense to anyone but me? I try to
maintain some sort of narrative thread, but I suppose there are lots of
things up here that have nothing to do with anything.

 Hmmm.

 Oh, hey, we're finally getting back to class. Fuckin' A.

 *2:53p*

 I farted, and it's really starting to stink.

 *3:44p*

 Lab time, once again. This time for "Compensating Resource Managers."
You know how you buy something with a credit card and it shows up on
your statement, then you return it and you get a credit? It still shows
up as having happened, but it all nets out to zero? That's basically
what "compensating resource managers" do - they do the credit back to
your card if you need that to happen.

 *4:18p*

 And that's a wrap. Compensating Resource Managers, while cool, are a
pain in the ass. I'm glad I'm learning about it, but I really hope I
don't have to do this shit when I get back to work. This sucks.

 Anyway, that's the end of the day. I'm packing up and going home.

 **Thursday, May 8**

 It never rains, but it pours. I got a summons to Federal jury duty last
night. I'll have to see how to get out of it, or at least postpone it.
I'm a little busy with work in July to potentially be sequestered or
some shit. Is "I don't care" a reason that you can't be on a jury? I
don't feel any moral obligation or civic duty to do it; I'll just vote
in a fashion to get out of the place ASAP, regardless of right or wrong.
Is that a legit reason to get out?

 The season finale of [*Angel*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0162065) last
night was really cool. I hear it's still up in the air as to whether
there will be another season, but if there's not, they ended up on a
decent note with no major cliffhangers. Don't get me wrong; I'm anxious
to see how the story continues to play out, but if it doesn't come back,
they did end up resolving all of the plot points that were hanging out
there.

 Saw that [Josh](http://www.idolonfox.com/contestants/joshuagracin.htm)
got voted off [*American Idol*](http://www.idolonfox.com/) last night
and let me say it's about time. I know the guy was only getting the pity
vote because he's a Marine. What's wrong with this country? At least
things have been set right now. Next week I'm predicting that
[Kimberley](http://www.idolonfox.com/contestants/kimberleylocke.htm)
will go. After that... Well, I hope
[Ruben](http://www.idolonfox.com/contestants/rubenstuddard.htm) wins.

 Jenn was having quite the time this morning. She seemed to have a
difficult time settling on something to wear. She wanted to wear pants,
but didn't like any of the pants she had. Then she put on pants but got
pissed off because of the panty line, so took the pants off and started
looking through her closet again. In the end she wore the pants she had
on the first time. We woke up about 15 minutes before the alarm went off
(fucking cat) and we *still* ended up leaving the house later than we
should have. (Luckily enough, we did get her to work on time.)

 My pet peeve of the day (well, maybe not just *today* is people who
think they're being "polite" by disobeying the rules of the road and
stopping where they shouldn't stop so they can "let you in" or
whatever.

 I appreciate that in some cases it's difficult to turn left out of a
particular store's driveway or maybe it's hard to merge onto a freeway
from a dead stop during rush hour. That's fine. But in order to ensure
everyone's safety, I need to rely on the fact that you're going to
*fucking GO when you're supposed to*. If there is no stop sign, *don't
fucking stop*. In the long run, you're going to cause more harm than
good. Maybe nothing will happen this time... but maybe you're starting a
traffic backup that will go for miles... or maybe you're going to get
rear-ended. Or worse. Just *drive*, will you? Drive *defensively*, not
*politely*.

 I'm not advocating you cut people off and go out of your way to be
nasty. What I'm saying is that there are rules of the road for a
*reason* - FOLLOW THEM.

 I'd best go get some juice and, like, a bagel or something before class
starts up. My tummy's growling and I have "hungry breath."

 *8:40a*

 Aaaaand it's showtime!

 *9:17a*

 I am *so stiff*. My legs hurt, my back hurts... I don't know if it's
just me or if these chairs just really suck.

 *9:35a*

 I'm fading fast, here. Tired, tired, tired. I could so easily become a
stimulant addict. This early morning shit is killing me. Killing me, I
tell you!

 Oh, I figured it out and I have like $6 in my checking account. That's
just fucking great. Good thing I have that $20 in my wallet or I
wouldn't be eating lunch. I *so* can't wait until Jenn gets a paying
job. My salary was not made to support two people. At least, not with
the lifestyle I lead (or would like to). As it is, I'm not really buying
anything (not the way I once was) and I'm *still* dipping into savings
every month to make ends meet.

 Maybe those hockey tickets this year just aren't going to work out. I'd
hate to lose our seats, but that's $400 - per seat - I don't have right
now.

 *10:42a*

 Lab time. "Loosely-coupled events" is the topic, and let me tell you...
I'm bogged down. This is a lot of information to take in on stuff I
don't use very often. I pretty much understand it, but thank goodness
there's no test on this stuff.

 (Actually, there *is* a test, but it's over "Developing XML Web
Services and Server Components with Microsoft Visual C\# and the
Microsoft .NET Framerwork" - which has three course requirements, and
this is only one. With any luck, I'll remember enough out of this one
and be able to ride the web-oriented part - the part I know - to
success. This COM+ shit sucks donkey balls.)

 *11:33a*

 Lunchtime. I've got until 12:45p, so I think I'll go get me a burrito
and sit in the Fred Meyer parking lot and just relax. It's nice to be
able to sit and not really have to think about anything or do anything.

 My lab didn't go as smoothly as the last time; I put a nice little
logic error into my project and it took me forever to find it. I
continue to maintain that this stuff is a huge pain. Nifty, though -
we're working on an order processing app that allows multiple users to
simultaneously see a realtime list of the pending orders in the system.
I think this is where my stand on web services breaks down - events. If
you want an event to fire and notify multiple clients, not all of whom
are on the same machine, this is the way to go.

 *12:41p*

 I'm back from lunch, and I have this terrible headache. I'm so tired,
and my back and legs are stiff... I've just taken some aspirin so
hopefully it will be going away.

 I'm thinking the shitty fluorescent lighting here isn't helping me at
all, either. In my cube at work I have all of the fluorescents shut off
and when I need light I open the blinds. Here they have the blinds shut
(due to the glare it would cause if they were open) and the lights are
sort of half-on. Enough to give me a fluorescent headache but not enough
to do anything of value.

 *1:42p*

 A couple of Excedrin Migraine and a can of Vanilla Coke later and I'm
starting to come out of my painful stupor. I almost threw up there. Not
good.

 *2:52p*

 Lab time again. This time it's "Queued Components" (that is,
communicating between programs on different machines... basically).

 I'm starting to see one particular application that this stuff might
have at work. I'll tell my boss about it... but I really hope he comes
back with, "Wow, that sounds like a little more work than we want to
invest in right now." I don't think it'd be fun AT ALL, but it would
probably solve the issue we've been working on.

 My headache is still hovering around the back of my head. I think I
need more Coke.

 Maybe this is what caffeine withdrawal is all about. I've only had one
can today as opposed to the three or four or six(?) that I've had the
other three days this week. Can you become dependant that quickly?
Probably. I dunno. I do know that it'd probably go away faster if I had
a nap, so I'll choose to blame it on the lack of sleep rather than my
fleeting Vanilla Coke addiction.

 *3:48p*

 Finished that lab after quite the tussle with the code. The thing is,
the application that the lab exercise has us working on... well, it's
good for example code, but it doesn't make logical sense in some cases.

 The app itself is an order processing app - you can place an order on
the web, then there's a Windows program that allows administrative users
to approve or deny orders for processing. The idea they're trying to
illustrate in the completed app is that only managers can approve orders
over $1000 (which shows us security principles), that orders placed for
items that are not currently in stock need to be ordered (which shows us
instantaneous/synchronous messaging) and that completed/approved orders
need to be pushed into the Accounting database for billing purposes
(which shows delayed/asynchronous messaging).

 The logic in the app, though, basically was saying "If we need to order
offsite, do it. Now, is the order over $1000? If so, are you a manager?
If it's over $1000 and you're not a manager - SORRY! Otherwise, all's
well, go ahead and approve the order." From the security standpoint, the
order is wrong. It should check to see if you have rights to approve
FIRST, then it should do the order offsite, then the order is completed
and approved. I was running into issues where stuff wasn't happening and
I couldn't figure out why... until I saw that the business logic wasn't
as logical as I thought it was.

 Oookay.

 *4:40p*

 Time to go home. We'll start first thing in the morning with a lab on
debugging. Sounds like a party to me. Or something.

 **Friday, May 9**

 I got home last night, still with my headache, and took an
hour-and-a-half nap, which made me vastly more chipper than I previously
was. That leads me to believe that my headache was more due to
exhaustion than anything else, and, thus, that it's Jenn's fault in the
first place. :)

 [*Survivor*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor6/) was not a big
surprise, and I'm glad
[Heidi's](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor6/survivors/prof/heidi.shtml)
gone, but I think
[Rob](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor6/survivors/prof/rob.shtml)
really needs to go, too. I am hoping that
[Matthew](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor6/survivors/prof/matthew.shtml)
wins this thing since he seems to be the one trying the hardest (not
necessarily playing the game but actually *trying*).

 Went in for my allergy shots this morning and... well, a little
history:

 I have two different allergy shot serum mixtures - one for
"Trees/Weeds/Mites/Animals" and one for "Grass/Mites/Animals" (whatever
that's all supposed to mean). Anyway, that equates to one shot in each
arm - one shot from each bottle = two shots, divided by two arms, etc.
Okay, well, that worked great until I started really reacting to one of
them (I don't remember which) so what they did was split the dose - I'd
get half of the shot in one arm, half in the other. That amounted to two
shots in my right arm (the original shot and half of the other shot) and
one shot in my left arm (half of the original).

 I started reacting to the original right-arm shot, so this morning
they've split that one, too. Now I get two shots in each arm - half of
each shot in each arm. How messed up is that? The clinic is even having
a hard time keeping it all straight. I guess this isn't terribly normal.
I knew I was pretty allergic, though, so I can't say I'm surprised.

 Last day of class! I am eager for this one to be over. It's reminded me
of why I hated school in the first place - The stuff that's easy is
really easy; and the stuff that's hard is hard because you don't get to
ramp-up, you're just thrown in. I've learned a lot in this course, but
not as much as I think I would have had I known more beforehand about
some of the lower-level programming constructs that I don't use every
day. I will have to revisit the learning material once I get a few more
of the general C\# courses under my belt so I can understand a little
better what's going on.

 One thing I do know is that I probably won't be using this stuff in
everyday work; it'll be one-off projects at best, and more likely than
not, I probably won't really ever get into it. Interesting to know, but
not something I'll be applying. With any luck, at least.

 I have to go to [Target](http://www.target.com) to get my mom a card
for Mother's Day. Target sells the only cards I like.

 I guess we're having breakfast with Jenn's parents at 8:00a Saturday
morning before they go to the airport to fly to wherever they board
their Alaskan cruise ship. I'm not sure if it's one of those things that
boards in the US, then travels up the coast to Alaska and back or if
they get on the ship in Alaska and just cruise around the area.

 Basically what that means, though, is that I don't get to sleep in on
Saturday, either. Blarg.

 I was driving home from training yesterday listening to [Kylie
Minogue's
*Fever*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005Y228/mhsvortex)
and realized that if I was a girl I'd probably dress just slightly
trashy and I'd be really flirty. I wonder if that's true.

 *9:29a*

 Finished the lab that we left off with last night. This was supposedly
on "debugging applications," but what it really illustrated was
troubleshooting configuration issues. Either way, very helpful. There
were three exercises and I was able to figure out one of them; the other
two I had to look at the solution. I found that the problem was we had
never really examined what the settings *should* be, so it was hard to
determine what they *shouldn't* be - no frame of reference and all.

 *11:16a*

 I guess we're going ot take an early, shorter lunch so we can get out
earlier today. I'm almost done with the last lab in the course and we
have only one more section - "COM+ 1.5 Enhancements." The instructor
went out to get us a pizza because that way we can hurry up and he can
get on his way back up to Washington (he came down only to instruct the
class).

 Sooner's better for me, too - that way I can get to Target and get
home.

 *12:00p*

 Well, done with pizza, and it's almost time to start up again,
methinks. With any luck, I'll be out of here by 1:30p.

 One might ask oneself - "Should I go to work with my remaining time?"
The answer, of course, is a resounding *NO*. My brain is fried, folks.
Time off is long overdue.

 I wonder if anything's gotten done in my absence. Somehow I'm doubting
it.

 *12:35p*

 Back to class, last section. I've got my class completion certificate,
I'm ready to go.

 *1:06p*

 That's it, folks. We're doing a little backgrounder on web services,
which I am already aware of, so I'm packing up. Joy, fun, seasons in the
sun, and all that. I'm ready for the weekend.

