---
layout: post
title: "Programming SQL Server, Part 5"
date: 2003-07-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 294
tags: [General Ramblings,GeekSpeak]
---
*10:47a*
 
 I got in to class just as it was starting at 8:30a because I had to
stop in and get my allergy shots today. I hate not getting in a little
early, but it couldn't be helped.
 
 Jenn and I watched this movie on... uh... some cable mystery movie
channel... last night called [*B.
Monkey*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305744564/mhsvortex).
It was described as "A shy schoolteacher gets pushed into the dangerous
London criminal underground when he gets involved with a sexy jewel
thief." It sounded interesting. It should have been described as "A sexy
jewel thief gets pushed into the average everyday life of human beings
when she gets involved with a shy schoolteacher." There really wasn't
any "London criminal underground" going on there. Maybe a robbery and a
couple of guns. That's not a gangster movie, that's a love story.
 
 That said, it had [Asia
Argento](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Argento,%20Asia) in it, who is hot like
nothing else, and there was more than the requisite amount of nudity
involving her (full frontal, baby!), so while the plot and other
characters were generally weak, I couldn't complain entirely about the
movie proper. Anything with lots of Asia Argento is well worth my time.
 
 *11:10a*
 
 Lunchtime already, but I didn't bring a book with me because I didn't
want to start something new and get sucked in - I need to focus on
studying for my tests.
 
 Speaking of books, I bought two books yesterday for my trip (though,
again, I'm not going to start them until I've done some of the studying
for my tests): [*Jennifer
Government*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0385507593/mhsvortex)
by Max Barry and [*Artemis
Fowl*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0786808012/mhsvortex) by
Eoin Colfer. I will probably start reading the Barry book first, since I
am more sucked in by its premise, but the Colfer book looks pretty good,
too.
 
 I'm pleased with how my blog is turning out using the CSS formatting
instead of the table and hard-coded styles, but the conversion is a big
pain in the ass. I'm finding that there are lots of things that I still
need to make styles for that are hard-coded in the templates, and some
things that I forgot were in the templates that I need to clean up. The
worst/biggest pain is going to be the comments portion of things -
making sure the forms all work properly, still look decent, and all
that... eh. What a bitch.
 
 *12:28p*
 
 Okay, well, I didn't really go to lunch because I wasn't really hungry,
so instead I hung out with Kate (the receptionist) and Jerry (the
instructor), who, coincidentally, also did not go to lunch. It was cool
to just hang out and talk with folks on a social basis since I haven't
had time to go hang out with friends or anything for a while. Plus,
they're really cool, so good times.
 
 I'm still hoping to get out of here early so I can go wash my car.
Rumor has it we'll be done by 2:00p.
 
 *1:08p*
 
 Last lab...
 
 *1:34p*
 
 That's it! I'm gonna pack up and go wash/wax the ol' car.
