---
layout: post
title: "Ladies, Ladies, Ladies!  GameBoy Advance SP is in Da Hizzouuuuuuuse!"
date: 2003-03-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 232
tags: [Gaming]
---
![GBA SP - And it's
MINE!](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pbtPEXcLypkYbV7M8yvpurIuTAFkMgNrXwMlDVKEE0V5FqnCbAEYzRcbYIrl4rlPZzWTbElz5YCWYo_Oxajxa12-ytQkGZr3xpy-YCqsyyMw/20030321gbasp.jpg?psid=1)Got
the call last night about 4:45p that my GBA SP was waiting for me at the
local GameSpot. Picked that bitch up by 5:30p. Plugged it in, it was
charged and set to go by 9:30p (the first time you charge the battery it
takes a little longer).
 
 \*sigh\*
 
 It is everything I hoped it to be.
 
 I'm now afraid I may be [cheating on my Playstation
2](/blog/comments.php?id=234_0_1_0_C) a little bit. This little baby is
just super. It's light, it has an ultra-clear screen on it... the beauty
of portable gaming is without bounds.
 
 I bought, at the same time, a copy of [*Yoshi's
Island*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006FWTW/mhsvortex), a
Super Mario game with a sort of hand-drawn feel to it. It's really cool
looking. I haven't gotten a chance to play it, but I think as soon as I
finish up here, I'm going to take a little of my lunch break and bust it
out.
 
 ![E-Reader Attached to GBA
SP](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pmGejALEac9EjaLUwWT362qMWKN9DGfXo2otm-iyRPrHhE3mfoT9TPPapsKivU7VlHFRN8iKvRnmqYC7R7-hzmWBCt60HEsLyiA1g6ZMQxPk/20030321ereader.jpg?psid=1)I
also went to Toys R Us and bought the [Nintendo
e-Reader](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006LELP/mhsvortex).
I highlighted it, attached to my GBA, in the picture, so you can see how
it works. It plugs into the cartridge slot for the GBA and has an
optical reader on it. You get cards, sort of like baseball trading
cards, with this ultra-fine "dot code" on the edges that this thing
reads and then lets you play games. It came with Donkey Kong Jr. on a
series of five cards. The reader is the only real expense; the game
cards only cost like \$5 a set. SWEET!
 
 Anyway, loving it. Now I may have to get a GameCube in order to connect
the two. I guess you can unlock stuff between the two when they're
connected. Brilliance.
