---
layout: post
title: "Dealing"
date: 2003-06-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 265
tags: [General Ramblings,Media]
---
I had a long weekend - [training Wednesday and
Thursday](/archive/2003/06/02/querying-a-database.aspx), then I had
Friday off because I [worked
Monday](/archive/2003/05/26/working-alone.aspx). It was nice and
restful, and I wish every week (and weekend) could be as nice and
stress-free as all that.
 
 Thursday night Jenn and I went to see [*The Italian
Job*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0317740) on [free sneak
preview](/archive/2003/05/27/golden-afternoon.aspx). It was much better
than I expected it to be - I expected a "pretty good" action movie, but
I got a really cool action movie - so that was a big plus. Maybe if I
get motivated I'll write up a review on it.
 
 Friday I went by myself to see [*The Matrix
Reloaded*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0234215) because Jenn wasn't
interested in it and, frankly, I had nothing else to do. I had heard
from several friends that this one wasn't very good, especially
considering the success of [the
original](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0133093), and that I would be
disappointed.
 
 I didn't have particularly high hopes going in anyway, and I think my
hopes were lowered by my friends' comments, so when I did end up seeing
it, I was reasonably satisfied. I can see where folks would be
disappointed - it was pretty "fluffy" as far as plot and whatnot, but I
think in the telling of the story, everything said was necessary. I also
think that they might be erring a bit on the philosophical side of
things, now trying to involve the concepts of free will and destiny,
whereas the first lingered primarily on the general concept of reality
and what makes something real.
 
 Anyway, again, if I get to it, I'll review it.
 
 Also on Friday I went to [Blockbuster](http://www.blockbuster.com/) and
rented [*Cube 2:
Hypercube*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008DDVY/mhsvortex)
and [*National
Security*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008WI9O/mhsvortex).
*Cube 2* (the sequel to the B-movie - you guessed it -
[*Cube*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305238065/mhsvortex))
was actually pretty good considering the whole thing essentially takes
place in a single room. I recommend seeing the first one first, though,
as the second one kind of builds on the ideas that the first one puts
forth. *National Security*... I thought would be funnier. Instead it was
a lot of [Martin Lawrence](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Lawrence,+Martin)
comedic complaints about racism and I thought some of the jokes just got
a little old and redundant. It was okay, but I'm glad I didn't see it in
the theater.
 
 Then Friday night Jenn and I went to a "Casino Night" that her [Job's
Daughters](http://www.iojd.org/) group was putting on. It was
disorganized as all hell - we were still cutting out the fake money when
people started showing up - but it was pretty fun. I ended up being a
dealer at a blackjack table for most of the evening.
 
 Now, keep in mind that the crowd attending the event was in the 12 to
20 year old range. There were a few parents, but by-and-large, we've got
the teenage crowd, average age of 16, and the dress code was casual. Let
me further add that, frankly, I don't remember girls *looking like that*
when I was in high school. So I have to say that it didn't hurt that
most of the time I was at this blackjack table dealing there was this
16-year-old girl with altogether too much cleavage pouring out of her
shirt sitting across from me, leaning over her cards. (Before you
psychos sic the police on me, it's not like anything was *happening* -
it's just that the view really wasn't killing me or anything.)
 
 Oh, and Jenn noticed it, too, and said something about it to me *before
I said anything*. So it wasn't just *me*.
 
 Saturday was an easy day. Jenn was at another Job's Daughters event, so
my dad came over and we rented the movie
[*Below*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JKWG/mhsvortex)
to watch and both of us enjoyed it thoroughly.
 
 That evening, still before Jenn got home (she was gone all day!) my dad
called and took me and my brother-in-law out to see [*X-Men
2*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0290334). I have to say that the sequel
here was *vastly* better than the first. The first *X-Men* left me kind
of... "eh." This second one made me want to see it again. Good stuff,
and I'm glad I saw it.
 
 Sunday I didn't really do anything. Sat on my ass and watched DVDs all
day long, worked on my beaded hat project, and generally just chilled
out. Very relaxing.
 
 All in all, the whole time was very stress-free and I wish I could
continue that theme throughout the rest of my days but, alas, I must
work so I can pay the bills. Perhaps retirement will offer me the peace
I so desperately desire, but I'm thinking that it may just be a
different type of stress entirely.
