---
layout: post
title: "Ich Kann Nicht Den Regen Stehen"
date: 2003-09-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 350
tags: [personal]
---
I was listening to my iPod this morning, set on random, and it only
seemed to play either German music (in the original German, like Nena's
*99 Luftballons* or Falco's *Vienna Calling*) or music about rain (like
Tina Turner's *I Can't Stand The Rain* or Eurythmics' *Here Comes The
Rain Again*). It was sort of eerie.

 I passed my test yesterday, and it was sort of interesting because they
had stopped giving scores on the Microsoft certification tests, but I
got a score. I passed with a 913 (700 being the minimum passing score).
Assuming all of the questions are equally weighted, that means I missed
five of the 55 questions... but since that doesn't quite work out to
91.3%, I don't think the questions are all worth the same. Regardless,
they also broke the score up into topic areas (like different points the
test was trying to cover) and I got "strong" ratings on all of the areas
(ratings range from "strong" to "needs development"), so I'm feeling
pretty good.

 That leaves me with one more test before I get my MCSD.NET
certification. The next one, *Analyzing Requirements for .NET
Applications* (or something like that), I haven't had the class for; I
only have the practice test. I will have to look over the practice test
to see how the questions look. From the title of the test, I'm thinking
I may be able to muddle through.

 But not tonight. Tonight, in celebration, I'm taking the night off from
studying and, since Jenn's out at one of her meetings, I'll be playing
Playstation. Oh, yeah.

 You know, this morning driving in to work I had a lot more to say. I
don't even remember what now. Man, such is the way my life's going
anymore. I can't remember *shit*.

 My boss was telling me that he may not be able to post his thoughts as
cathartically on his blog as I do on mine because he "might say
something he'll regret." I dunno about that. I mean, it's *your* site,
right? Why be censored? There's gotta be somewhere in the world where
you can just be you without having to factor in what everyone else
thinks, otherwise you're living in a prison. I mean, if the company
wants to fire me because I say something they don't like, well... I
guess in that instance I'd decide that working for the Third Reich is
not quite where I needed to be. But that hasn't happened (yet) so let's
hope it never comes down to that. Right?

 I've been getting random job-offer-related spam lately in my inbox (how
can you take a job offer that gets mass-mailed seriously?). For those
recruiters who are sifting through sites and wanting me to come work for
you, here's the deal:

 You have to offer equal or better benefits compared to what I'm getting
now. You definitely have to offer better pay, and probably significantly
so since changing jobs is a big pain. The position has to be a
permanent, full-time position - I don't do contracts since I don't like
guessing whether I'm going to get paid again, and I don't do part-time
because I *do* need to pay the rent. I'm not interested in relocating
unless you're *really* paying well, and by that I mean I'm not
relocating if I can't get rich off you or have the potential of retiring
10+ years early. Moving around for the same amount of money just won't
cut it. And, finally, I am getting certified as an MCSD.NET. That means
I'm working with some pretty recent technology and am doing well with
that. I really don't want to go back to programming VB6 stuff or writing
low-level shit like device drivers, nor do I feel the need to work in
Windows 95 or even Windows 98 anymore. If you're not in the *now*, don't
bother spamming me.
