---
layout: post
title: "Homework"
date: 2003-09-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 371
tags: [personal]
---
My dining room table is in at the shipper's warehouse, but they only
deliver between like 10 and 4, so I've got a two-hour window in which I
need to be at home tomorrow so they can bring me my goods. I told my
boss that and he said I should just work from home tomorrow, so I think
that's what I'm going to do. I haven't really done too much work from
home before, so we'll see how it goes. I'm sure that the trade-offs will
quickly appear; while some distractions won't exist (phones, other
people), others will rear their ugly (or, in some cases, cute) heads (my
bad cats).

 Regardless, I should have a table by 4:00p tomorrow, which will be sort
of nice and sort of not. I was enjoying the fact that my apartment looks
ten times bigger when there's no table, but I'm kind of tired of sitting
on the floor when I need to do any sort of writing or whatever.

 I still need to post the [Enchanted
Forest](http://www.enchantedforest.com) pix, but I have downloaded them
off my camera and they're almost ready to go. You can really see the
shortcomings of my shitty little camera in them - bad lighting, nothing
is centered in the frame - but I guess they're better than nothing.

 I also need to do some more work on my pMachine implementation. The
home page is pretty much done, but the entry pages haven't even been
started yet, and there's definitely some fine-tuning to be had. It looks
good, though, and I can't wait to move over. It offers *so* much more
functionality. You guys will love it.
