---
layout: post
title: "CockUSA"
date: 2003-02-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 221
tags: [personal,food]
---
I really should know better than to ever visit
[CompUSA](http://www.compusa.com). I really should.

 I have only ever had bad luck at CompUSA. I've purchased a couple of
things there, and both times I was the victim of crappy return policies,
untrained store personnel, and general incompetence.

 I am on the constant lookout for [Bawls Guarana](http://www.bawls.com)
beverage. It's good stuff, right up there with a [Venti<sup>TM</sup> Mocha
Frappuccino®](/archive/2002/04/04/talk-dirty-to-me.aspx). Both beverages
put me in a good mood, restoring faith in mankind and actually making me
conducive to customer service. Yes, with a little chemical assistance,
even *I* can help people.

 The thing is, I *know* where to get the Frappuccino. Bawls, on the
other hand, is nigh unto impossible to find locally.

 I went to the Bawls site today and noticed they have [a
locator](http://www.bawls.com/bawls.php?page=locator) to help you find
vendors that sell the tasty drink. There are two locations listed for
Oregon, both being CompUSA stores.

 One of the stores listed is *reasonably* close to my work. When I say
*reasonably*, what I mean is *"I can get there and back during my lunch
hour if I drive like a mad bandit and traffic is lighter than it usually
is."* Hesitant to embark on such a journey without some positive
assurance that the beverage not only was carried, but was also in stock
and at a reasonable price, I called them to verify.

 After navigating through a sizable phone menu system, I got connected
with someone who could (supposedly) discuss item pricing and
availability with me. That conversation went something like this:

>
> **Pedro:** Hello, and thank you for calling CompUSA. My name is Pedro
> [I don't think that was his name, but he had a heavy, uh, *Mexican*
> accent which comes into play later] and I will be helping you to
> determine the pricing and availability for products. Can I please have
> your zip code?
> **Me:** 97202
> **Pedro:** Okay, that's the Jantzen Beach store. What products are
> you looking for today?
> **Me:** Actually, I'm interested in products at your Tigard store,
> over by Washington Square Mall. I can't make it to the Jantzen Beach
> store.
> **Pedro:** Okay, what products are you looking for?
> **Me:** I'm interested in a drink you might carry.
> **Pedro:** A sink?
> **Me:** No, a *drink*. Bawls Guarana.
> **Pedro:** Heat sinks?
> **Me:** *NO*, a *drink*. You know, like you eat food, you drink
> water... a *drink*.
> **Pedro:** A drink? [Shit, man, do you fucking speak fluent English?
> I'm not mumbling over here...]
> **Me:** Yes, a drink. It's called "Bawls Guarana."
> **Pedro:** Okay... yes, we have it.
> **Me:** You do carry it? Good. Is it in stock?
> **Pedro:** Yes. It's $16.
> **Me:** Is that for a case? I'm sure it's not $16 a bottle.
> **Pedro:** Yes, it's for a case of 12.
> **Me:** Perfect. And that's definitely in stock at the store by
> Washington Square?
> **Pedro:** Yep.
> **Me:** Great! Thanks.

 I hang up the phone with Pedro and I can't say I don't have a bit of an
uneasy feeling about the whole thing. I really didn't get the impression
that he was clear on what I was asking for, but he did confirm - twice -
that the stuff I was looking for was at the store by me. I decided to
make the trip.

 It took about a half hour to get there. I got in the store, did a
cursory check, and I didn't see anything. I then went to a "sales
associate" to ask where I could find it.

 "Bawls Guarana? We haven't carried that for a while. Sorry."

 *Mother fuckers!* I can't *believe* this shit. I mean, looking back on
it, I guess I should know better than to even try to deal with CompUSA,
but I couldn't resist the idea that my beverage was within purchaseable
reach.

 It's a good thing that guy was behind a counter or I'd have kicked him
squarely in the shins.

 So, no Bawls Guarana for me. [ThinkGeek](http://www.thinkgeek.com) lets
you [order cases](http://www.thinkgeek.com/caffeine/drinks/2818/), but
the shipping is a killer and brings the price of the drink up to $2.10
per 10oz. bottle, a little rich for my blood. I guess I'll keep
looking.
