---
layout: post
title: "Coming of Age"
date: 2003-01-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 191
tags: [personal]
---
I had lunch with my good friend Liz today at Jack in the Box. The last
time I saw her was prior to the holidays, so it was nice to see her
again and catch up on what happened over break. Shame on her for not
visiting this site first.

 She brought up the fact that she'll be 30 in ten days (or, more
accurately, "the first anniversary of her 29th birthday is in ten days")
and her life is turning into [*Bridget Jones's
Diary*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXT7/mhsvortex).

 This got me thinking: I don't know of any guys who are concerned over
aging. I mean, if you ask a guy how old he is, he'll probably answer you
straight without referencing how many years ago he left his 20's. Women,
on the other hand, seem generally preoccupied with how quickly life is
slipping away and the effects this could potentially have on them.

 Not that that's a bad thing, necessarily, it was just the difference in
thought process that struck me.

 Honestly, I don't think Liz has anything to worry about. She's a hottie
and really smart to boot, and if she'd *get the hell out of her house*,
I'm sure she could find some really great guy who'd snap her up. *(Are
you hearing me, Liz?!?!)* And if not, well, I don't think that's so big
of a deal. I mean, it's not like there's some rule that says you have to
be married by a certain age or anything.

 Besides which, if all else fails, she can move in with Jenn and I and
join my harem. :)

 But I digress.

 Anyway, lunch was good (love the "Ultimate Cheeseburger") and she gave
me my Christmas gift, [*The Twilight Zone Companion* by Marc Scott
Zicree](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1879505096/mhsvortex).
Everything you've ever wanted to know about the Twilight Zone but were
afraid to ask. Gotta love that. Now to begin my collection of TZ DVDs.

 Finally, a throwback to [yesterday's
post](/archive/2003/01/08/night-shift.aspx) - I found out that one of
the problems I ran into with the SharePoint Portal Server 2001 SP2 is
actually a known issue that they're going to publish a knowledge base
article about. I think it should be in the readme file instead, since
I'd never have gone to look in the KB; I'd have assumed the problem was
due to the install of the service pack and called it a day. Oh, those
crazy Microsoft guys!
