---
layout: post
title: "Review: Legally Blonde 2"
date: 2003-07-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 284
tags: [Media]
---
I went to [*Legally Blonde 2: Red, White, &
Blonde*](http://us.imdb.com/Title?0333780) yesterday.
 
 Eh.
 
 If you've seen the first one, then you'll find that this is such a
total re-hash of the original's jokes that you wonder if they didn't
just take the first movie's script and massage it a little. And the
thing about *that* is the first one felt sort of fresh and fun; it's not
fresh anymore because *it's a sequel*.
 
 Not to mention in the first one I could suspend my disbelief enough to
say, "Yeah, okay, maybe she's a big dork, but she somehow was able to
make her way through law school. I'll buy it." I'm sure it could never
have happened in real life, but it was acceptable in the movie. In this
latest adventure, they take the valley girl into Washington DC where she
proceeds to throw out *every bit of protocol that 200 years of
government has worked to establish* and somehow, *magically*, it all
seems to work out for her. Representatives who would normally have
considered the financial impacts of certain bills and voted the way that
would make the economy (and their own pocketbooks) work somehow decide
that it's time to "do the right thing." Sorry, folks. Welcome to the
land of the pork-barrel project. Doing the "right thing" is a gray area,
and rarely is it what you and I would consider "right."
 
 Anyway, all of that pretty much shot my suspended disbelief in the
head. I sat there, checking my watch, wondering when they were going to
*get anywhere* or maybe do something funny or original... and it never
happened. So, if you've seen the first one, cherish it, and maybe
consider renting this one on a night you feel like getting drunk.
 
 If you haven't seen the first one, rent that and call it a day.
 
 Can I say anything positive about it?
 
 Hmmm.
 
 Well, I always like [Reese
Witherspoon](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Witherspoon,%20Reese), and her Elle
Woods character *is* reasonably entertaining to watch. She's fun and
quirky, and watching the stuff she and her dog get into is funny.
 
 I just think that next time (and, at this rate, let's hope there *is no
next time*) they need to start with only the idea of Elle Woods, from
scratch, and write from there. Unless you're [Mike
Myers](http://us.imdb.com/Name?Myers,+Mike), rehashing the same thing is
probably not going to work for you.
