---
layout: post
title: "Weekend Cornucopia"
date: 2003-03-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 233
tags: [personal,tv,media]
---
The weekend itself wasn't terribly eventful, but I do have a lot of
little, unrelated information to catch folks up on, so I'll do that
here.

 First, the weekend news.

 Went to a local club Saturday night to see "an intimate show" by Josh
Kelley and the band "Pay The Girl." By my definition, "an intimate show"
implies about 100 - 150 people. There were probably a good 500 people in
this place. I'm sure the fire marshal would have been pissed - I mean,
it was *packed in*. They started wheeling out chairs for people to sit
in, but there was nowhere to put them so folks were sitting in the
aisles and walkways... not good. We saw a few songs by Josh Kelley, but
then the smoke in the place started severely hindering Jenn's breathing
(it wasn't great for me, either) so we left before Pay The Girl came on
stage.

 Went to [Fry's Electronics](http://www.frys.com/) during the day on
Saturday and picked up a [Platt heavy-duty polyethelene case with custom
foam cutout](http://www.plattcases.com/Products-A-New.asp?ProductID=6)
to store [my GBA
SP](/archive/2003/03/21/ladies-ladies-ladies-gameboy-advance-sp-is-in-da.aspx)
in. I got the foam all punched out and all the parts are in the case
with plenty of growing room in the event I get other accessories that
need storage. I've always wanted one of those cases (sort of like the
sniper rifle cases you see in action movies), but I never knew what I'd
store in it. Now I know.

 Sunday I didn't do much of anything. Played a little PS2 with Jenn,
hung out... that's about it.

 Random stuff:

 There's a [class action lawsuit against movie
theaters](http://www.nomovieads.com/) for showing paid advertisements
that run past the time when the movie's supposed to start. The idea is
that if the movie is supposed to start at 7:00, then it starts at 7:00
and not 7:30 because you, the captive audience, just had to watch 30
minutes of advertising. This is the greatest thing ever. I hate the
stupid ads at the beginning of movies. One or two doesn't bother me too
much, but I've sat through seriously like 10 ads at a time. Fucking
ridiculous.

 I took a [*Star Trek* Personality
Test](http://startrek.about.com/library/weekly/aa080201.htm) and it says
I'm [an "ENTP" and identify most with the character Harry
Kim](http://startrek.about.com/library/weekly/aa080201u.htm). I'm not
sure I entirely agree with that, but whatever.

 The [*Alias* Season One DVD
set](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JLF1/mhsvortex) is
available for preorder from Amazon. Looks like it won't be out until
September, which is not soon enough as far as I'm concerned. [*Buffy*
Season
Four](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008K2XP/mhsvortex) is
coming out in June. I should preorder both of those.

 My instructor from the [training class I went to a couple weeks
ago](/archive/2003/03/07/out-for-sql-training.aspx) is fairly new to the
area of Portland. I thought about it, and there's really not a simple
guide to What's Cool in the Portland, OR Area. There are tourist books
and stuff, but nothing I really agree with. I am thinking I may have to
come up with that and post it here. Then again, that's a lot of work, so
maybe not.

 The [new Kelly Clarkson
album](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00007GUIO/mhsvortex)
looks like it should be coming out April 15 and [Justin
Guarini's](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000078D18/mhsvortex)
should be out later this Spring. I'm stoked - curious to hear their
music.

 I think it's interesting - if you look at [this site
(AmericanIdolMusic.com)](http://www.americanidolmusic.com/), they
basically treat Justin and Kelly the same as opposed to one being the
Idol and the other being runner-up. I think that's pretty cool,
actually, because it sort of implies a tie, which I think it was. They
both rock.
