---
layout: post
title: "Gettin' Busy"
date: 2003-12-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 416
tags: [personal]
---
Minor geek moment:

 I've been working on this project at work where I want to read [RSS
(syndication) feeds](http://blogs.law.harvard.edu/tech/rss) and display
them inside SharePoint Portal Server 2003. Thank goodness for
[RSS.NET](http://rss-net.sourceforge.net/). I was fearing I'd have to
try to implement the [RSS Bandit](http://www.rssbandit.org/) parser, and
that's just a little more than I was ready for.

 Okay, enough of the geek moment. I may have to blog in more detail on
that one later, though. I'm pleased with my work (it's not done, but the
stuff that is rocks), but most folks out there aren't going to "get
it."

 Sidetrack: A form just came through my cubicle and the shipping
instructions on it said "Second Day Error." Like that's a new service
FedEx offers or something - lose your package on the second day. No
extra charge! Too funny.

 I got my copy of the [*Alias* Season 2 DVD
set](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000ALF8I/mhsvortex) last
night. Six discs this time. I'll have stuff to watch while I'm on
vacation at the end of this month. They have a \$10 rebate offer where
you get a refund for buying both Season 1 and Season 2 (which I did).
Time to send away for that.

 My mom called me up this morning because she was reminded of a funny
childhood Christmas story about me. I guess they were sharing kid
stories on the radio and she thought of it. Apparently when I was five
years old I went to see Santa Claus at the mall. Santa was wearing a bad
pair of rubber boots instead of the nice leather ones that quality
Santas wear. When I got done, I came back to Mom and said, "That's not
the real Santa! Santa Claus doesn't wear irrigation boots."

 She didn't call that one in because most five year olds don't know what
irrigation boots are, so she didn't think they'd believe her. I think
it's pretty damn funny, though.

 I've been ripping all of my CDs into AAC (MP4) format so I can listen
to them on my iPod. I've been working on it for a few weeks now and I'm
only about halfway done. I'm doing it alphabetical by artist, and today
I'm working on the end of the m's. I'm glad I'm there, since that means
most of my holiday music is done (love the Muppet holiday stuff!) so I
can at least transfer that over to the iPod and get in the Christmas
spirit.

 I tried watching the [*Tracy Morgan
Show*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0364892/) last night and it sucks. I
love [Tracy Morgan](http://www.tracymorgan.net/index.html) on Saturday
Night Live. I think he's great. One of my favorite skits is ["Brian
Fellow's Safari
Planet."](http://www.tracymorgan.net/brian-fellows-safari-planet.html)
But his new show is like... well, have you ever tried to watch [*The
Cosby Show*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0086687/) now that it's been
off the air for 10 years? It's not funny. It's predictable and tame.
That's what Tracy Morgan's show is - predictable and tame. I suppose if
I was sitting down with my kids and wanted something on prime time
television that would be guaranteed safe for all of my kids, yeah,
that'd be the show. But I'm not, so it's not. Very unfortunate; I had
high hopes.
