---
layout: post
title: "Querying a Database"
date: 2003-06-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 264
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
I'll post about the weekend shortly, but I thought I'd get the entries
from my class last Wednesday and Thursday posted up here since people
might be interested.
 
 This is, of course, the typical way-too-long play-by-play entry, so if
you want the whole skinny...
 **Wednesday, May 28**
 
 *8:53a*
 
 Okay... so I'm in course "MS-2071B: Querying Microsoft SQL Server 2000
With Transact-SQL." So far, so good. Instructor's nice. This being a
smaller, two-day course, I'm expecting a fairly easy time. Here we
go...
 
 *9:02a*
 
 I'm realizing I didn't brush my teeth this morning. Icky. On top of
that, I'm wearing my last pair of clean underwear. I'll have to go
digging in the clean laundry bin to see if I've got some that are
floating in there.
 
 *10:10a*
 
 Just got back from my first break. Standing up, I realized these chairs
suck donkey balls. They're TOTALLY not adjustable - not height, not
tilt... nothing. My back's starting to kill me because they were
obviously made for a midget office. I think the chairs in Barbie's Dream
House are bigger than this.
 
 *10:41a*
 
 The first lab was... how to read the online help file. A lab on RTFM.
That's too funny.
 
 *11:01a*
 
 Not being at work and drinking altogether too much Vanilla Coke so far
today has put me in a good mood. One of my rarer moments to be sure, but
not entirely disagreeable. Maybe I should try out this good mood thing
more often. If only there weren't so many *people* out there to piss me
off...
 
 *11:38a*
 
 Time for lunch. So far this hasn't been too much of a stretch for me,
but I *have* learned a couple of new tricks for editing and re-using SQL
scripts. So - easy, but still worthwhile. I like that.
 
 *12:47p*
 
 Back from lunch... but the class is empty. Huh. Good thing I've got my
book.
 
 Went to [Fred Meyer](http://www.fredmeyer.com) for some deli food for
lunch. Cheap and tasty. Love it. While I was there I found [the
legs](http://www.qbits.info/Products/product9119-295.asp) that go to
these little [modular cabinet
things](http://www.qbits.info/Products/product121-295.asp) I bought the
other day (on sale, of course).
 
 Talked for a little while to the admin and one of the instructors, just
hanging out. That's cool. I like them both, and it doesn't hurt that the
admin's a little hottie.
 
 *1:09p*
 
 Starting class again. Woohoo!
 
 *1:33p*
 
 My morning buzz is wearing off. I've hit that post-lunch-naptime phase
of my day. Eyes... closing... losing... consciousness...
 
 *1:42p*
 
 Found [this salary
survey](http://www.fawcette.com/vsm/2003_06/magazine/features/salarysurvey/)
from [*Visual Studio Magazine*](http://www.fawcette.com/vsm/) (sitting
in the lunch room) that confirms that I'm getting underpaid. Not that I
didn't already know that, but it's nice to see the statistics confirm
it.
 
 *2:01p*
 
 Lab time!
 
 *2:31p*
 
 Lab's done. Still pretty well cruising through this class, but it is
definitely serving to reinforce existing knowledge and fill in the gaps
to round the whole thing out. Very cool.
 
 *2:57p*
 
 ...and back to work...
 
 My afternoon drag is still here. Not sure what to do about it. Maybe
*not getting up so damn early*.
 
 *4:07p*
 
 Finished another lab. This one was really good and talked about a LOAD
of stuff I didn't know. Stuff like aggregate functions (getting totals
and averages of information) and how to interpret the results and get
exactly the results you're looking for. SQL Server can do a lot of the
computational work for you so you don't have to write a program to do it
later. Lots of things that are really helpful.
 
 I guess the instructor's gung-ho, since we're at the end of a chapter
and he's wanting to start the next one already. We'll end up in the
middle of a chapter, which isn't the greatest, but I suppose to keep on
schedule one does what one must do.
 
 I've moved from Vanilla Coke to Sprite because the Coke was making me
just crave more Coke... but the Sprite is giving me heartburn, so I
guess I can't win for losing on this drink thing.
 
 *4:36p*
 
 Joining a table to ITSELF?! My head hurts...
 
 *4:38p*
 
 And that's that. Time to go home!
 
 **Thursday, May 29**
 
 *9:10a*
 
 Well, I finished the lab that we didn't do yesterday and I'm ready for
action. While waiting for the other guy in the class to finish, I'll
fill you in on last night.
 
 Got home about my usual time because we stayed pretty late in the class
(we were supposed to be out by 4:30p and usually you get out by around
4:00p, but not this time). Jenn wanted to go to the mall to get her
nails done (little pleasures - besides, they *were* looking pretty bad),
so I went to the mall, too, just to get out of the house.
 
 While she was in the salon, I went to almost every cool shop in the
mall. That's not to say she took a long time; it was more a case of
nothing really interesting me. I almost felt guilty going to the mall
and not seeing *anything* I wanted, but I don't know if that was a
subconscious budgetary restriction or if nothing really did catch my
attention.
 
 I did notice that American Eagle Outfitters, Old Navy, Abercrombie &
Fitch, and, well, pretty much every other "trendy" clothing store all
sell approximately the same thing. "Screen print tees" and unkempt
looking pants and drawstring-oriented shit... It makes me wonder where
fashion ever went. Even The Gap, which is more of a Nazi uniform sales
store than a clothing shop, is starting to sell this "shabby chic" shit.
And here I thought I could count on good old Gap to remain the cookie
cutter style it is known for. So much for that.
 
 Watched the new [*Fame*](http://www.nbc.com/Fame/) show on TV and
thought the competition was way stiffer than for [*American
Idol*](http://www.idolonfox.com/). The singers were generally better and
these folks could *dance*. It got kind of irritating when they repeated
the phrase "triple-threat" over and over and over. I think that's their
big slogan or trademark or something. Don't be surprised if you see
*triple-threat<sup>TM</sup>* somewhere in the media soon.
 
 This probably crosses the TMI boundary but tough noogies:
 
 Yesterday I mentioned I was wearing my last pair of clean underwear.
Well, normally I wear lo-rise briefs because they just seem to fit
better (and I can't stand that "going Commando" feeling that boxers
provide - there's no control there and I just can't abide by it). The
last pair of underwear in my drawer was a full-rise brief that I had
bought because the package was mismarked. Anyway, I always wear them
last since they don't fit as well as my other underwear.
 
 So I'm standing in my underwear, brushing my teeth before going to bed,
and I'm looking at myself in the mirror realizing that I look like a
two-year-old on a Huggies commercial for "big boy pants." It was really
pathetic. Not to mention that my other briefs are reasonably form
fitting - you can see that I *do* have an ass, and the, uh, unit up
front is doing okay, too. These briefs... no ass, baggy everything, and
the front looked like I had taken a marble and dropped it into a hanky.
Really fucking lame. Well, just one more reason not to wear those
sons-of-bitches. I should probably pitch them out so I don't catch
myself in them again.
 
 Luckily there was clean underwear in the clean laundry bin so I pulled
some out and wore those today. Everything down under is back to normal.
Crisis averted.
 
 *9:35a*
 
 Well, we HAD started class again, but then the video projector went all
wonky so we're working on that now.
 
 Oh, here we go. We're going to skip the projector and use paper.
Whatever.
 
 *10:00a*
 
 Break and lab time!
 
 *10:54a*
 
 Well, I'm officially slightly behind. The lab just now on subqueries is
a tough one. I even had to cheat a bit and look at the answers because I
got slightly stumped - I got the right answer for the question, but I
got the answer a different way than they did.
 
 It's a good thing there's more than one way to do things. I'm screwed
otherwise.
 
 *11:51a*
 
 Lunch! Plus, I have to poop, so good times.
 
 *12:45p*
 
 Back from lunch, and I think we have about 15 minutes until we resume.
I'm hoping to get out of here by 3:00p or so because I have a haircut
scheduled at 6:00p that I can go and get done early, then I can be ready
for *The Italian Job* at 7:00p (I'll need to be to the theater an hour
early or thereabouts because I really want into this one.)
 
 *1:03p*
 
 Still haven't started class. I'm *reeeeeeeeeeaaaaadddyyyyyyyyy.....*
 
 *1:15p*
 
 Class is underway. Apparently we're going to do the next (last) two
modules back to back, then the last is labs. Cool. It's looking like
I'll get out of here early, which matches my evil plans perfectly. It's
all coming together.
 
 *1:41p*
 
 Last module...
 
 *2:37p*
 
 I'm outta here! Time for my haircut!

