---
layout: post
title: "Conjuring Delerium"
date: 2003-09-08 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 349
tags: [Media]
---
A good weekend was generally had by all, yet it still seems like it
could have been longer. Amazing how that is.
 
 Friday my friend [Darren](http://www.reely.com/) called me up and let
me know that his brothers Greg and Glen were in town on tour with
[Delerium](http://www.delerium.com/) and [Conjure
One](http://www.conjureone.com/), and wondered if I'd like to go.
 
 *Hell, yeah!*
 
 Headed over to the [Crystal
Ballroom](http://www.danceonair.com/Crystal/), caught some awesome
tunes, finally met Darren's brothers, and had a great time.
 
 Jenn wasn't so into it, but what can I say? She likes what she likes
and she's not really a "music person," if you know what I mean.
 
 Saturday I went to [Fry's](http://www.frys.com/) and
[Costco](http://www.costco.com/) and ended up getting a couple more
*Best Of Saturday Night Live* DVDs. I got the Adam Sandler one and the
Molly Shannon one.
 
 After watching them both, I'm now remembering that Adam Sandler, while
funny, didn't actually *do* a whole lot on SNL. Molly Shannon, though...
she just cracks me up. I hope they come out with a Cheri Oteri disc.
She's my favorite.
 
 Saturday afternoon Jenn and I went to my cousin Jenni's son Shane's
(what does that make Shane to me? is that a cousin too?) birthday party.
Pretty much my whole extended family was there from my mom's side, so it
was good to see them and catch up. Most of them live in the Seattle
area, so I'm going to have to plan a trip up there to visit soon.
 
 Cousin Jenni starts chemo for the tumor behind her left knee on
Tuesday. Ugh. With any luck, she'll pull through. I'm sure she'll be
fine; she's a survivor.
 
 The party was sort of interesting, though. Not only was my family
there, but Jenni (and her husband Jesse) had their friends, too. Jenni
and Jesse are into the Harley motorcycle thing, so there were a lot of
biker folks there. Interesting people, but I did feel a bit like I was
guest-starring on [*American
Chopper*](http://dsc.discovery.com/fansites/amchopper/amchopper.html).
 
 Sunday was pretty relaxing. Didn't do much, and it was the first day of
rain we've had in a while, so it was a good day to stay in. Played some
more PS2. Watched some movies
([*Identity*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008EY9G/mhsvortex),
[*From Justin To
Kelly*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JM9N/mhsvortex),
[*A Man
Apart*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00009ZPUA/mhsvortex)).
That's about it.
 
 Today, I'm finally wearing normal shoes (not sandals) and one of my [*I
[Heart] Toxic Waste*
shirts](http://www.cafeshops.com/paraesthesia,like_to_help_01,hate_people_01,paraesthesia_02,tDt_01,toxicwaste_01),
[*Real
Genius*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000065U1Q/mhsvortex)
style. I have a test at 2:00 today on ASP.NET - the second to last test
for my MCSD.NET certification. One more after this, and it's done.
Jury's still out on whether I'll go for the MCDBA. It's a lot of work.
 
 My boss finally put up [his own
blog](http://www.livejournal.com/users/gergs/). Took him long enough. I
figured he'd have jumped on this bandwagon long ago. Let's see how long
he'll keep up with it before he gets too busy and stops posting or just
generally forgets it's there...
