---
layout: post
title: "Connecting"
date: 2003-07-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 285
tags: [personal]
---
I finished reading [that damn Tom Clancy
book](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0425180964/mhsvortex) last
night. After fighting through 1067 odd pages and reaching the
conclusion, I feel pretty cheated. I'm of a mind to write Mr. Clancy and
tell him that if he wants me to work that hard to get through a book, he
really needs to make the payoff worthwhile. As it is, I'm having a tough
time justifying the \$6.98 bargain table price on that one.

 I was [thinking a couple of days
ago](/archive/2003/07/01/post-lunch-update.aspx) about friends moving in
and out of your life... and no sooner did I say that, then all these
people started sending me emails. My man Gerb, he and I are like best
buds, I hadn't heard from him for, like, ever. Got an email from him to
say he's moving into my neighborhood, which is cool because we can get
together and hang out. Another friend of mine, Brent, *fell off the face
of the world* about a year or so ago, leaving no contact information at
all, and he just dropped me a line. Even Jenn is getting into the mix -
she got in contact with her old roommate from a couple of years ago.
Jenn hasn't talked to her since they moved out, so that's good.

 The Fourth of July weekend approaches at an altogether too rapid pace.
I've got two weeks of training coming up, and I'm not even close to
finished with the stuff I need to get done here in the office. I suppose
it'll all be here when I get back.

 Friday (the fourth) I'll be setting up a professional fireworks shoot
with my boss (a licensed pyro) and a couple of the guys from my
department. That should be fun, and with any luck I'll actually get to
light one or two of them off between taking turns manning the fire
extinguishers.

 Beyond that, there's nothing on the schedule, but there are still the
standard household maintenance jobs to perform, so before I know it, the
weekend's going to be gone (again). Hopefully I'll get in a little time
to start the new Harry Potter book. I've had it sitting here for a while
but needed to finish that Tom Clancy bomb before I started a new book.
Now's my chance.
