---
layout: post
title: "Fake ID"
date: 2003-02-07 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 210
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I was over at [Tanya's](http://chumpco.com/~jezrial/log.html) reading a
small nugget about the various IDs she carries and how some could be
forged easier than others when I started thinking a bit...
 
 Jenn and I just recently went to go get passports. Now, in the US, for
a new passport application you need to bring your driver's license and
your birth certificate. To get a driver's license, you need three
documents: one "proof of age" and two "proof of identity." At least,
[that's how it is in
Oregon](http://www.oregondmv.com/DriverLicensing/profiden.htm).
 
 The proof of age for your license can be your birth certificate. This
can double as one of the proof of identity documents. The other proof of
identity could be a company ID card, a medical card, or some other such
thing.
 
 The company ID, medical card, or other proof of ID could very easily be
forged. I could whip something up on my printer in about 10 minutes for
that. Basically, the only thing stopping you would be the birth
certificate. They're printed on special paper so you really can't just
forge one up.
 
 Fortunately (or unfortunately?), Jenn had somewhere along the lines
lost her birth certificate, so she had to go in to get a new one. \$15
and a few minutes later, she had a brand-spanking-new one. No one
checked any ID or anything on her; she just had to know things like her
mom's maiden name and a couple of other things that could pretty easily
be obtained by anyone who really exerted the least bit of effort.
 
 Then I started thinking about movies where you see these people going
through all this trouble to have passports *made* and things, and I was
thinking, you know, you could get a fake passport a whole lot easier if
you actually went through the *legal channels*. Nobody questions
anything, and a few weeks later it gets mailed to your house. One would
think there would be more of a background check or something prior to
issuing a new birth certificate, but apparently not. Makes you wonder,
doesn't it?
