---
layout: post
title: "Things Are Happenin'"
date: 2003-12-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 414
tags: [personal]
---
It got busy yesterday, so I didn't get to fill y'all in on my weekend.
Let's give the whole rundown, since it was a pretty decent weekend, all
things considered.

 Friday night... I don't remember what was going on Friday. Oh, wait, I
remember. Jenn and I went over to my parents' house and watched
[*Survivor*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor7/). That show never
fails to piss me off. The stupidity exhibited by the people on the
island rivals something out of [*Lord Of The
Flies*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0399529209/mhsvortex).
Then again, I have to remind myself that I see a lot of stuff -
interviews, secret meetings, etc. - that the people participating in the
show don't see, so they can't take that into account. Still pisses me
off, though.

 Saturday... ugh.

 Saturday morning I got all of my chores done, which this week consisted
primarily of vacuuming and dusting. I tried out the [Swiffer
Duster](http://www.homemadesimple.com/swiffer/usenglish/products/dusters.shtml)
we got and it works pretty well.

 At four we went to see Jenn's dad get made the Master of his Masonic
lodge. That was... interesting... I had anticipated it being a much more
formal experience than it was, considering that he wore a tuxedo and top
hat during it, but it was surprisingly casual. Almost too casual to hold
any reverence for me, which is unfortunate, because I have a feeling
this is a big deal. The part that really killed it for me was the music.
Every time someone would stand up and walk to the front of the room to
say something or get initiated into office, this guy in the corner with
a Casio keyboard would play a bad rendition of a Christmas carol, like
"Frosty the Snowman" or "It's Beginning To Look A Lot Like Christmas."
Every time he fired it up, I wondered why the organ grinder started
playing and where the little dancing monkey was. It was pretty terrible.
I guess the person who was supposed to play music was sick so if the
carols weren't there, there'd be no music at all. Somehow I think that
would have been a better option.

 Towards the end of the ceremony I started getting stomach cramps
something awful and had to make a mad dash for the bathroom. I'm not
sure what was going on there, but my stomach never really recovered; I
went back to see the end of the ceremony and was ill the whole time.

 We had a hockey game to be at by seven and since dinner was part of
this thing, we convinced the people cooking to speed ours along. Dinner
was prime rib, and I discovered something while eating it.

 I don't like prime rib.

 The other option was ham, and I'm not a ham-eater, either, so after
Jenn was done, we left and stopped at Burger King on the way to the
game. Let me tell you how happy I was to get some real food in my
stomach.

 Got to the [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) game in time to
see the Hawks come out and the game start. The Hawks played their
*asses* off and beat the best team in our division six-to-two. We got
free pizza (because we scored during the "Pizza Schmizza Magic Minute,"
which means everyone gets a free slice from the local [Pizza
Schmizza](http://www.schmizza.com/)) and free chalupas from Taco Bell
(because we scored six points). There were more fights than I could
count, and most of them were actually awesome fights. I even got to talk
to the best fighter on our team, [Robin Big
Snake](http://carbon.winterhawks.com/index.php?option=content&task=view&id=49&Itemid=70),
after he got kicked out of the game for fighting (the locker room entry
is right next to the men's restroom, and I happen to be heading in there
and saw him hanging around just outside the locker room, watching the
game).

 I need to get a Big Snake jersey. That guy rocks. I'm still stoked
about how great that game was.

 Sunday we went to see [*Bad
Santa*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0307987/) with a couple of friends
of ours, Jason and Tracy. The whole point of that movie is that it's so
offensive - it's everything Santa Claus should never be associated with.
I thought it was hilarious, and a perfect role for [Billy Bob
Thornton](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000671/). Jenn seemed to sit there
mortified half the time, Tracy, I think, was actually offended, and I
think Jason laughed at parts but didn't think it was as funny as I did.
Regardless, it was good to hang with them and see a funny movie.

 Don't take your kids to that one, though. Yow.

 We finished off Sunday night by catching the latest episode of
[*Alias*](http://abc.go.com/primetime/alias/index.html), a show that
continues to be on the top of my list.

 Yesterday, the CIT group I work in got to go to lunch at the Portland
Steak and Chop House as a reward for doing such a good job in the
past... quarter? Year? Whatever. Free lunch, man. I got a New York
Peppersteak and had tiramisu for dessert. It was pretty good, but after
seeing the prices on the menu, I don't know that it was worth the price.
I suppose the point is moot since I didn't pay for it, but I didn't feel
like the steak I ate was a $35 steak. Maybe I'm just not the food
connoisseur I'd like to think I am.
