---
layout: post
title: "The Grammaton Cleric"
date: 2003-05-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 258
tags: [Media,General Ramblings]
---
A whole lot of nothing went on this weekend, but the high and low points
are reviewed herein.
 
 Friday night we rented [*Analyze
That*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JLRB/mhsvortex) and
I watched it while Jenn slept. It was an acceptable sequel, but honestly
I had been hoping that she would have been able to get the movie
[*Equilibrium*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JLWN/mhsvortex)
since I was looking forward to seeing it.
 
 That wasn't possible, though, because after going to two Hollywood
Video stores and a Blockbuster, we couldn't find it. Hollywood didn't
carry it and Blockbuster only had three (missing) copies.
 
 So. *Analyze That*. Eh. If you liked the first one, you'll like this
one. I thought the first was okay, and I thought this one was okay. Done
and done.
 
 Also Friday night I pulled out my [Dremel](http://www.dremel.com) tool
and started cutting pieces off of Jenn's old (reads: no longer attached
to her arm) cast. I got a couple of cuts made and then the sucker just
crapped out on me. Seriously - no matter what I did (letting it cool
down for several hours, taking it apart and cleaning EVERYTHING, etc.),
it still wouldn't start up again. How irritating is that?
 
 Which meant that Saturday was spent on a mission to find the same (or
better) model of Dremel tool for a reasonable price. After going to
several stores I discovered that you really can't buy *just* the Dremel
tool; you have to buy it in a "kit" with attachments. The cheapest kit I
found with the tool I wanted was \$50 at Home Depot, but they didn't
have it in stock.
 
 So I bought it [online](http://www.homedepot.com).
 
 Then I called my dad to see what was going on (and to make sure we were
all still on good ground) and he told me he rented *Equilibrium*.
Dammit! I ended up weaseling my way over there with Jenn and we watched
it there.
 
 It *rocked*. Seriously, very cool. I've ordered my copy off Amazon
today and I [recommend you do the
same](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JLWN/mhsvortex).
 
 It's basically [*Fahrenheit
451*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000087F6L/mhsvortex)
updated for the new age but well worth the watching. Great action, great
story. Admittedly predictable, but getting past that, loads of fun.
Check into it.
 
 Sunday I woke up with the worst headache I've had in a long time. I was
sick to my stomach, tired, and just not feeling well. I tried sitting
calmly and watching a movie (after medicating with some Excedrin
Migraine), but that didn't make anything go away, so I went back to bed.
Which means I got up at like 7:00a because of the woodpecker (I'll get
to that in a second), went back to bed by 10:00a, and then got up again
around 2:00p... and I still had my headache. I ate dry toast because I
wouldn't be able to keep anything else down, but around 4:00p I got this
pizza craving so I ordered some delivery.
 
 I probably got rid of my headache by 5:30p. I took, over the course of
the day, four Excedrin Migraine tablets, four Advil pills, and two
generic Aspirins. Probably too much, but then, if it's not working...
:)
 
 Now... the woodpecker.
 
 Jenn and I have been hearing noises like something fluttering around in
our chimney. We reported it to the apartment complex, who looked and
found all of the screens around the exhaust pipes and things intact, so
they said we were imagining things (basically). Well, it turns out that
it's not IN the chimney, it's NEXT TO the chimney, and it's gone beyond
fluttering now - it's a fucking *woodpecker* and it's having a ball with
my chimney. We wake up every morning now to the sound of a tommy gun
firing in the living room. Let me tell you how well that makes you feel
first thing when you wake up.
 
 We reported this updated information to the apartments and they said
we're not the only ones that the pecker is fucking (pun intended...
mostly). They just don't know how to get rid of it. Try
[Google](http://www.google.com), people. I found [an
answer](http://www.e-bug.net/cgi-bin/store/commerce.cgi?keywords=Ropel)
in about three minutes. (Apparently the [woodpecker is marking his
territory](http://www.e-bug.net/forum/messages/3007.shtml) or something.
Fuck that, man.)
