---
layout: post
title: "Programming with the .NET Framework, Part 5"
date: 2003-07-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 301
tags: [net,personal]
---
*8:14a*

 I've loaded up the car, checked out of the hotel, and I'm in my last
day of class (which won't start for another 45 minutes.

 Last night I went back to the hotel after class and decided I needed to
take a short break from learning, so I sat down with the GBA SP and
played *Metroid Fusion* for a bit. After that, I fired up the computer,
which promptly gave me a load of errors - something about being "unable
to read instruction at memory address 0x7somethingorother" - which meant
disk issues, after a little investigation.

 So I started a disk check and went back to the Game Boy.

 I'm not sure if it's my frustration with the upcoming exams or just my
general lack of patience... or maybe even a distinct lack of hand-eye
coordination when it comes to video games... but I got playing Metroid
again and I quickly got to a boss that I *just can't beat*. I got
reasonably far into beating him several times (I think) but I just
couldn't pull it off. So I switched to *Yoshi's Island*, which is a
Mario-style game, and I couldn't beat the level I was on.

 By this time I was so fed up that I didn't want to try some other game,
I just wanted the GBA *away from me* so I packed it up and got out some
comics I brought along with me.

 The disk check, of course, was still not done.

 I read a couple of comics, checked on the disk check progress (almost
done), read a couple more, and saw that the check had finally finished.
Not the quickest process in the world, but it did find a couple of
errors, which it fixed, and I subsequently have not seen the weird
errors that I was seeing.

 I did notice, however, that there's some other weird error involving
"ACPI BIOS" that's been happening for a while now, so I should probably
investigate that when I get back to work.

 It was around 8:00p by then and I still had four modules' worth of labs
to finish up from my *Programming Windows Apps in C#* class (the whole
reason I brought the computer along, really, was to finish these labs
and understand the concepts we didn't have time to go over in class). I
moved through them at a pretty decent speed (so I thought) and ended up
finishing them up around 9:30p. I'm pretty comfortable with the stuff
they taught now (I wasn't before), but I still don't think I could do
them without a little bit of help in the way of documentation.

 I figured I should probably call Jenn before it got any later, since I
still needed to eat and pack my stuff up for check out, so I called. We
had about 15 minutes of what I like to call "bad phone" (where nobody
really has anything interesting to say, so it ends up being something
like: "How was your day?" "Fine, how was yours?" "Fine." "Oh. Okay."
"Right." "So what's new?" "Nothing. You?" "Nothing.") and I hung up so I
could eat.

 After a fine meal of Lean Cuisine, during which I watched some more
[*Broken Saints*](http://www.brokensaints.com), I got some stuff packed
up. Not all, mind you, but some.

 And then sleep.

 *10:25a*

 We're on break, and I remembered that I have a dentist appointment
coming up that I need to reschedule for the following week, so I figured
no time like the present - I stepped out of the classroom and phoned
them up.

 They're closed Fridays.

 Apparently, the "regular business hours" are 8:00a - 4:30p Monday -
Thursday. What ever happened to *work*, people? Dammit! I suppose I'll
call them on Monday, but not being open Friday is pretty frickin'
ridiculous.

 *11:08a*

 Two more words that have lost meaning: *pointer* and *marshaling*.

 *11:34a*

 We're getting pizza in class so we can work through lunch and maybe I
can get out at a reasonable time. That'd be nice.

 Can diabetics eat pizza? This guy in class is diabetic but he's getting
a salad. I wonder if it's that, or if it's just that he doesn't like
pizza.

 There's a car alarm outside that goes off about every 20 minutes. I
wonder if it's mine.

 \<1\>1:27p

 I just finished the last lab, and now there are several "optional"
modules of varying interest. I'm interested in the Threading module, but
I've seen the ADO.NET intro module more times than are useful (I've got
the in-depth course next month).

 Pending on what they decide to go over, I may end up leaving soon.

 We had pizza in class for lunch, so we worked through lunch and made up
some time. Let's see if we can put that to use.

 *2:03p*

 [Here's an interesting blast from the
past...](http://www.jwz.org/gruntle/nscpdorm.html)

 *3:04p*

 We've gotten past the ineresting stuff and now we're neck deep in
technical garbage that doesn't mean really anything to me. I suppose if
I ever had to get into this stuff it might, but I don't, and it's Friday
afternoon after a long week of class, so I'm tuned out.

 Besides which, I should be getting on the road pretty soon.

 *3:16p*

 That's that. I'm packing up and taking the traffic-laden trip home.
