---
layout: post
title: "Site Rollout"
date: 2003-09-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 351
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Well, I just rolled out the [new Corillian web
site](http://www.corillian.com) and it's pretty snazzy if I do say so
myself. The graphic artist here did the graphics and animation; I
implemented that all in code and hooked up the back end stuff. Now it's
cleaner and faster than the last site, and way easier to maintain.
 
 I went home last night and Jenn went to one of her meetings, so I
played Playstation until my thumbs started to hurt, which, surprisingly,
wasn't as long as I thought it was going to be. I'm getting better at
both *Soul Calibur II* and *Amplitude*, though I have to say that at
this precise moment I'm more sucked into *SC2*. Loads of fun.
 
 [My boss](http://www.livejournal.com/users/gergs/) has requested that I
stop sending him emails that have the word "fuck" in them. Heh. *That'll
happen.*
 
 I printed out the practice test questions for my next Microsoft test
and this time it looks like it's different than the other tests I've
taken. This is more "here's a case study, now answer questions about how
you'd implement their solution." That's going to suck *ass* when it
comes to actual test time because it's going to be nigh unto impossible
to see the case study *and* the question on the screen at the same time.
I don't even know if the test software will allow you to do that.
 
 Anyway, I'll be studying that stuff soon.
 
 Once I finish that test, I'll have an MCSD.NET certification. I'm not
sure whether I want to go another two tests and get an MCDBA or not. I'm
really, really sick of studying in my free time, and I'm not sure what,
if anything, it'll end up getting me. Here, probably nothing. Maybe
it'll open up doors at other companies. I'll think about it.
 
 I think I need to put a [ShimmerScreen](http://www.shimmerscreen.com)
in my house. I don't know where, but somewhere. These things are cool.
 
 I'm feeling restless today. I have a lot of work to do, but it's all
shit I hate doing (reads: Portal Server). They need to make motivation
in a pill form so I can get a prescription for work. I'm having
*issues*, man.
 
 I haven't found anywhere else that carries the dining room set I want,
so I may just end up ordering the set online, even though it's a little
spendy, and call it good. I'm tired of searching around; I've found what
I want, I just need to get it.
 
 Jenn's birthday's coming up on the 16th and I've been shopping for
stuff, but it's hard to shop for someone who doesn't know what they
want. I ended up getting a list from her and buying mostly stuff on the
list, but I've always been of the mind that a good gift is something you
*want* but don't *need*, and is probably something you'd never buy
yourself but would love to receive. Hard to do that for someone who
doesn't *want anything*. I think it'll work out all right.
 
 Man, I realize as I sit here typing that I don't have *jack* to say.
Like, I mean, aside from the traffic lately just pissing me off (it's
*Oregon*, people, it *rains here*... figure out how to drive in it!).
Maybe I'll come up with something better later.
 
 Or maybe not. *You never know.*
