---
layout: post
title: "ASP.NET, Part 2"
date: 2003-08-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 328
tags: [dotnet,aspnet]
---
<!--markdownlint-disable MD036 -->
*8:01a*

 I got a lot done last night! I mean, mods to Greymatter, the Toxic
Waste shirts... stuff I'd been meaning to do for a long time, and it
finally got completed. I think it's amazing how much *more* energy you
have when a) you're not working four peoples' jobs at the same time; and
b) you aren't spending an hour each way commuting to that four-in-one
job. Got home yesterday and felt... like I could still accomplish
something at home besides getting ready to pass out on the couch in
front of the TV. It was good.

 I did forget to schedule my next test for next week, but I can do that
tonight after my haircut when I get home.

 *8:17a*

 My hair stylist called and moved my appointment to Thursday, so I guess
I'm going home right after class. Fine by me.

 *8:29a*

 There are grounds floating in my coffee. Mmmmm.

 *9:55a*

 I'm going to try to merge my mods from last night (Greymatter) into the
latest version of Greymatter (1.21d) since I'm not on it right now (I'm
at 1.21c). However, the proxy server here doesn't seem to allow FTP
through, and [my HTTP-based file
manager](http://www.gossamer-threads.com/scripts/fileman/) didn't get
set up right in the transition, so I guess I'll wait until I get home.
Bah.

 *10:02a*

 Break time. We're working on "events" in ASP.NET, which are pretty
straightforward, especially now that I've already taken the Windows
Applications programming course. Pretty much the same thing, actually,
which is good - standardization appeals to me. It seems that it's a hard
concept for some folks in here, though, but I suppose never having
written anything web-related will do that to you.

 *10:40a*

 Thank goodness for [WWW2FTP](http://www.www2ftp.com). Fileman is up and
running.

 *11:14a*

 Got the first lab of the day done, and we're starting to get into some
stuff I'm interested in. That's good.

 I'm going to go through (if I can) and see what's different in the
different versions of Greymatter. I think it'll be minor stuff, but
we'll see.

 *11:36a*

 Well, I just went through the Greymatter source and compared my
modified version of 1.21c to the latest version, 1.21d, and merged all
the changes into one primary version, which I'd like to think of as
1.21e.

 I noticed while going through the code that whoever put together 1.21d
actually *removed* a bunch of security-related code (the encryption of
passwords, etc.). I left that in my build, though I can see how it might
stop it from being used on Windows-based servers that don't have the
"crypt" command available.

 The 1.21d primary change was a small security fix where folks on using
a PHP exploit could somehow corrupt your Greymatter site. Not sure what
that exploit is, but I left the security fix in place.

 So my version, the unofficial 1.21e, has:

- All of the features of Greymatter 1.21c
- The PHP security fix from 1.21d
- An updated comments posting routine such that when a user posts a
    comment (and you choose to be notified by email), the email will
    actually come FROM the user (if they provide an address) so you can
    potentially reply to the comment directly (the email layout is a
    little nicer, too)
- Updated configuration so you can specify your Amazon Associate ID
- Updated add/edit entry screens so you can use CTRL-SHIFT-E to add an
    Amazon Associate link, just by entering the item ASIN
- Updated the CTRL-SHIFT-A link hotkey (when adding/editing an entry)
    to automatically add a **clause (more often than not, I want that)

 I am considering modifying it slightly so it will write an RSS file
when you add/edit entries, but I'm not sure if I want to do too much
more work with this if I'm just going to migrate to Movable Type
anyway.

 *12:04p*

 Lunch. I'm not sure what I'm going to get yet, but I'm thinking I may
chance Zupan's (the market) again and see what sort of funky stuff they
have that might NOT taste like Chef Boyardee.

 *12:38p*

 Back from lunch. Went to the market again, but this time looked around
a bit more before I settled on their deli fettuccine alfredo. That was
pretty good, actually, so if they have it tomorrow, I may get that. Also
picked up a [Tazo](http://www.tazo.com/) Lemon Ginger iced tea, which is
tasty.

 While I was there I saw a couple of interesting things. First, I saw a
four-or-five ounce bottle of balsamic vinegar that costs $130. I'm not
sure how you can justify [paying that much for
vinegar](http://www.farawayfoods.com/vinegars.html), but some people
have money to burn. Second, I saw [*Natural*
Cheetos](http://www.snacknatural.com/) - Cheetos with supposedly no
preservatives, artificial flavors, or artifical colors, flavored with
white cheddar. They looked sort of like little cheesy larvae in the bag,
sort of white and poofy. How can you have Cheetos without the orange
fingers?

 *1:30p*

 Just finished an interesting lab involving tracing the execution of
ASP.NET pages. A few things clearer there, and learned a couple of
things I didn't realize you could do.

 *2:02p*

 We're looking at validating input, which is all well and good, but my
brain has checked out. I'm remembering why I was never a fan of school;
I can't concentrate on any individual thing for this long. Plus,
lecture/classroom learning, while better than just reading the book,
isn't the best way for me to learn.

 I don't know what the best way for me to learn is. Maybe I should avoid
it altogether.

 *2:30p*

 Another lab down. Learned a bit about some of the functionality of the
validation controls you can use. Don't get me wrong, it's neat stuff,
but man... it's programming. Ugh.

 *2:56p*

 Last lab of the day...

 *3:06p*

 Done. Yeah, boyeeee.

 *3:11p*

 There must be some stupid email thing going around again, because I'm
getting spammed with all of these virus-laden mails with the subject
lines "Re: Approved," "Re: Thank You!," and "Re: Re: My details." To all
the morons out there: *Stop opening up attachments from people you don't
know*.

 *3:12p*

 I guess that's it for the day. I'm outta here. YAY, ME!
