---
layout: post
title: "All Hands To Battle Stations"
date: 2003-08-08 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 318
tags: [personal]
---
We had an "all hands" meeting today. This is a once-a-quarter occurrence
where they take an hour or two, feed us donuts, and then try to re-sell
us the jobs we already have by putting up colorful slides and throwing
out statistics that must mean something to someone.

 Frankly, I think it's fucking boring. I mean, I *work here already*.
Don't sell me on our "potential opportunities" and all that - isn't that
what we pay some of the folks here for already? To figure that all out
and get us going in that direction?

 Plus, I don't think it should take an hour to explain where we're going

- cut to the chase already. The only thing I'm getting out of this is a
glazed look and a loss of my will to live. Tell me what I need to know,
and let's move on. I got shit to *do*.

 I was actually discussing that a bit with my boss today. How I'm really
sick of working on the project I'm on right now (and have been for the
last eight months) and now I look for little things - anything - to do
*instead* of working on the project. He says it's a "grass is always
greener" sort of thing - that any other project is going to be a better
thing to work on, but then that's still not as good as the next
project... I think it's more of an "attention deficit" sort of thing - I
don't like working on huge projects for extended periods of time because
I lose interest. I like to do a *variety* of things. The spice of life
and all that.

 Oh, and I have a problem with the "employee recognition" program
they've got set up. Maybe not a problem, but an interesting observation.
I've noticed that the people who primarily get recognized are
salespeople. I think it's great that they're selling the product (isn't
that their job?), but I don't think they're the only people working
here, you know? Today we actually had a couple of folks recognized for
doing some legitimate above-and-beyond stuff, and that was cool. But I'm
starting to think that this place works a lot like a stage production -
the actors and folks on-stage get a lot of credit and come out for the
curtain call... yet there's a whole crew of technical folks, makeup
artists, propmasters, and so on that keep the production rolling that
don't get all that much credit. I mean, what about the guys in my
department who keep the systems up and running daily with less than the
requisite staff? When things go *right*, nobody cares. When things go
*wrong*, we hear about it until the cows come home. Irritating.

 Subject change: I brought home a bunch of my class books to review
while I study for my next test. It's a good thing I did - some of the
stuff I reviewed last night was stuff I didn't remember too well, and
stuff I had seen on the practice tests I've looked at already. I have a
lot more work ahead of me. I can't wait until this one's over.
