---
layout: post
title: "Follow-Up To Smell Memory"
date: 2004-08-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 641
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I suppose this sort of falls into a similar vein as my previous [smell
memory](/archive/2002/10/29/what-if--smell-memory.aspx) post, regarding
the way certain smells trigger memories (and wouldn't it be nice if we
could really capitalize on that?).
 
 I have fond childhood memories of visiting my dad's office. He's a
central office engineer at an independent phone company and has worked
there for, I think, longer than I've been alive. While he's been in
actual offices and so on, most of the time he's sat at a desk in the
central office itself, surrounded by the equipment. When I was a kid,
going to visit his work fascinated me. There were teletypes and huge
racks of equipment with all sorts of wires sticking out; stacks of paper
and books everywhere; sliding ladders attached to rails in the ceiling;
blinking lights and buttons and VT100 terminals; spinning magnetic tape
reels and cables running in tracks all over the place. The amount of
cool stuff packed in there was astounding, especially when you're in
grade school. Overwhelming, almost, because you *can't touch anything*,
you just have to *look*.
 
 Honestly, I think that sort of contributed to my fascination with
technology and gadgets. Some could argue it's a genetic thing - guys
like gizmos with buttons - but I'd like to think Dad had some good
influence there.
 
 One thing I remember very vividly from visiting Dad's office is the
smell. I've never really been able to put a finger on what it is that
smells, just that it's very distinctive. It smells like paper and wire
and electronics all combined in a sterile aroma that really can't be
described precisely. Regardless, that smell *is* Dad's office. I tried
to explain it to him one time but I think he's been working there too
long and doesn't notice it anymore. He also doesn't notice that his
lunchbox smells like overripe bananas and mint chewing gum, but I guess
that's neither here nor there.
 
 A couple of weeks ago they painted the concrete stairwells at my work
with some sort of industrial-strength paint that can stand up to foot
traffic. After they finished, allowing a couple of days to let it air
out, they let people back into the stairwells. You know what?
 
 It smelled *just like Dad's office*.
 
 I had to stop and stand there for a few seconds to get myself back
together. It was an odd feeling, standing on the stairs and smelling
Dad's work. Like a miniature transporter had temporarily beamed me to
his office and back again really quickly. Like I had just reclaimed
about five seconds of my childhood.
 
 I called Dad and asked him if they have concrete floors at his work
that get painted, but they have tile floor. The walls are concrete, so
that might be it, or it might be the metal support beams - if I remember
right, those have paint on them, too. Maybe it's not even paint at all,
but some similar chemical that the paint has that's also in something at
Dad's work.
 
 Crazy how something like that can make you remember things.
