---
layout: post
title: "Closing"
date: 2004-03-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 547
tags: [Homeownership]
---
I went at 11:00a to the title company and promised my mortal soul in
exchange for...
 
 Oh, wait a minute.
 
 I mean, I went to the title company and signed all of my loan papers,
handed over a ridiculously large check, and now my house is in escrow.
As soon as the loan funds and records (which should be Friday), I'll be
getting some keys to the place because, at that point, the house is
mine.
 
 Of course, the lady selling the house won't be out until April 3, which
was part of the offer - allowing her to stay there rent-free for a few
days while her new house closed and she moved out - so I won't be able
to go in until then. I'll take a couple of loads of stuff over, maybe
roll around on the carpet, nothing major... but on the fifth, I'm movin'
in.
 
 My realtor, Gregory, missed my paper signing, but I think it was just
some sort of miscommunication or something. He said he didn't get the
message on when the signing was, while my title officer (who is,
coincidentally, also my aunt) says she left a message for him with the
info. Gregory is understandably irritated because he thinks it reflects
poorly on him, while my aunt is also understandably irritated because
she thinks it reflects poorly on her. I don't think it reflects poorly
on either of them; they both provided me with *excellent* service and
will be getting future business and recommendations from me. These
things just happen sometimes. I'm not sure what Gregory would have done
there anyway, other than just showing support; it was basically just a
bunch of new versions of loan documents I already signed.
 
 All in all the signing took about 45 minutes and I signed probably -
seriously - 100 different things (I have two loans - a primary/first
mortgage, and a secondary/home equity line of credit - so there's double
the usual paperwork), many of them duplicates of each other, but all
reasonably straightforward. Now that it's said and done, I'm not sure
what all of the hazardous warnings and bad signals were all about that I
got from people I talked to; the signing isn't really a bad experience,
and there's not a lot different there from when you buy a car or any
other big-ticket item. There's just more to sign, which doesn't make it
bad, just a pain in the wrist.
 
 Only one more step remains in the entire process - the actual move.
We've been packing nightly and getting things ready to go, but there's
still *so much more*. I'm wiped out, man.
