---
layout: post
title: "I Am Not A Teacher"
date: 2004-06-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 586
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I know enough about myself to admit my weaknesses and know the
boundaries on my abilities. For example, I have very little patience
with people. I already know I have this flaw, and I do my best to
accommodate for it by avoiding situations where it may require I have a
lot of patience in regards to socializing with others. I try to spare
myself - and everyone else - the pain of having to deal with me once my
patience wears out.
 
 See, for me, patience is sort of like a bank account: You have a
certain amount of patience, you spend it on different situations, and
when you're out, you're out - time to back off and build up some more
patience in the old account.
 
 Teaching people is like going on a patience spending spree. I get
spending long before I even get to the teaching part. I start thinking
about all the different stupid shit the person I will eventually be
teaching will want to know, then I get thinking about how I'm going to
answer the questions - particularly technical questions from a
non-technical person - and pretty soon I'm already stressed out and
pissed off.
 
 Putting this into perspective, I just got off a very, very long project
at work that pretty much kept my patience bank at a low level. I got by,
but barely, and I look back on it now as a trial that I successfully
overcame; I'm happy with the end product, I'm happy with the team I
worked with, and I'm happy that we were able to succeed. That said, I
need a little time before jumping right back into the fire so I can
build my patience account back up. I'm fresh out. Plus, now that I'm
working on a different project, I'd like to actually make some headway
on the new project, not continually context-switch back to the old
project.
 
 I got word today that we've got a non-technical guy who needs to be
educated on how to do some reasonably technical stuff to customize the
output of my last project. To that end, I've been tasked to *train* this
guy on how to do the changes, then potentially have a meeting where I
train a *room full of these people*.
 
 Asking for this is akin to saying "We have a whole bunch of people who
don't know how the web works; in two hours or less, you need to teach
them how to make web pages using cascading style sheets." At the very
best, my patience bank just got robbed for whatever was left; more
likely, I'm going to end up shooting all these people and then shooting
myself.
 
 You might ask yourself what the big deal is. The problem is in the way
I work. My mind moves very quickly and not necessarily in a straight
line from point A to point B. In fact, there are usually about 20
different points in between that I stop at on the way. This doesn't
translate well in a training environment for things where there's not
actually a process to follow. In many cases, I don't even know how I got
from point A to point B - there was a path, there was some method to the
madness, but articulating that is beyond my abilities. This trait became
problematic in college math classes where I'd write out the problem then
the solution right after; you're supposed to show your work but I don't
know *how* I got the answer, I just knew what the answer was.
 
 It's the articulation of the path that blasts away my patience. If I
slow down enough to explain the exact thought process going on, I lose
track of where I am and don't actually accomplish anything. Ever start
to say something and then forget what you were going to say right as you
were going to say it? It's like that. I'm like, "Okay, first you do
this, then... uh... what were we working on?"
 
 Note that this is different if I have a curriculum to teach and there's
a process to be followed. When it's not "train this entirely
non-technical person on a totally unstructured technical topic," I do
reasonably well. I can answer questions, follow a curriculum, and all is
well. It's when I have to get into defining a process for how to do
something at the same time I'm trying to teach the person how to do it
that really gets me... the impromptu requests for training on topics
that have no curriculum, process, or structure. That's where we have
issues.
 
 Anyway, I'm doing my best to make my displeasure at this training idea
known without overtly pissing too many people off. I'm quickly coming
upon the time where I won't care about who I piss off, though, and that
could be career limiting. Here's hoping I don't end up getting fired,
eh?
