---
layout: post
title: "Downward"
date: 2004-08-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 643
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I moved my cube today, from the second floor in the lap of relative
luxury, to the first floor in a veal pen about the size of a
refrigerator box.

 Sigh.

 I started at Corillian four years ago on the third floor in a medium
sized cube. Then I moved to the second floor (when I moved to IT) and
traveled from cube to cube, generally increasing size until about four
months ago when I moved and lost some space. It wasn't so bad then,
since I really was still in a 12'x12' luxury apartment.

 Now I'm in a cube that's maybe 6'x8' and I'm dying, I tell you. I had
to take all of my Legos home, I don't have too many pictures up... ugh.
Ten pounds of shit in a five pound bag.

 I've made it home-y, though, as much as I can. I still have some
pictures, my coffee maker, my refrigerator, and some toys. It's just...
tiny. Maybe this is how the rest of the world lives. Maybe I'm seeing
the other side.

 I suppose it could be worse. I could have a support column or something
in here.

 I don't know where to go from here, though. I've been on all three
floors of the building - three, two, one - and there's no basement. I
can't move any farther down. Now what? New building? Telecommute?

 In other news, I think I'm going to pressure wash my house tomorrow. We
have vinyl siding and it's starting to look a little dingy with dirt so
it's time to break down and do it. I'm not really looking forward to it,
and I know it's going to be a day-long job.

 Oh, and we watched [*The League of Extraordinary
Gentlemen*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JM5B/mhsvortex)
last night on On-Demand. It was okay; I don't know why people complained
so much about it. It wasn't the best movie ever made, but it wasn't
really *bad*, either.
