---
layout: post
title: "Going Down Fighting"
date: 2004-05-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 568
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Last night I watched the [*series* finale of
*Angel*](http://www.thewb.com/Shows/Episode/0,8201,||1940,00.html).
 
 I'm not an *avid* TV watcher. I have certain shows I watch -
[*CSI*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/csi/),
[*Survivor*](http://www.cbs.com/primetime/survivor8/index.shtml),
[*Alias*](http://abc.go.com/primetime/alias/index.html) - but I don't
usually get *sucked in* to a show. I mean, if last season of *Survivor*
was it, I'd just move on with life. I was a fan of the whole *Buffy*
thing ever since [the original
movie](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005LIRA/mhsvortex),
though, and I watched the Buffy TV show from beginning to end, all seven
seasons. There's a certain sci-fi soap opera need that's filled in me by
*Buffy*. Long about the time the writing in *Buffy* started to wane,
they brought in the *Angel* spin-off series, and I was an avid watcher
of that for its entire five-year run. *Angel* was a little edgier, and
while some of the stories weren't as cool as others, they tended towards
the sci-fi (while *Buffy* seemed to veer off towards the soap opera).
 
 When *Buffy* ended, the show had sort of reached its natural
conclusion. They had fought all there was to fight, and the characters
had come to sort of a point where they needed to move on. The way they
ended was perfect - a big bang, the end of one story and the beginning
of another chapter in the characters' lives as they rode off into the
sunset.
 
 With *Buffy* over, I was glad to have *Angel* around to continue that
mythos - the characters crossed over from *Buffy*, the universe had
continuity... it was like *Buffy* never ended, it just had a sequel. An
even better sequel, because the shows remained compelling and the
characters were always changing it up. You never knew what was coming
next. Kind of like [when the *X-Files* was still
good](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003RQND/mhsvortex).
Remember that?
 
 After five years of *Angel*, they ended it last night. And while I'm
not an avid TV watcher and don't generally get sucked into shows, I was
really sad to see them go. It's like seeing an old friend leave for the
last time, never to return except in the photo album you occasionally
flip through. I've read through a few message boards and a lot of people
(including Jenn) were disappointed in how the show ended, but I really
wasn't. [The gang went out fighting the good
fight](http://www.thestar.com/NASApp/cs/ContentServer?pagename=thestar/Layout/Article_Type1&c=Article&cid=1085004615083&call_pageid=968867495754&col=969483191630),
trying to stop evil, and while it was left open-ended as to whether they
survived or not, I'd like to think they did.
 
 From [an interview with David
Boreanaz](http://www.darkcommandos.com/links/Boreanz.html):

> Q: If there's never another Angel adventure, where would you say we're
> leaving this character?
>  
>  A: In battle. Battle for his own self and battle for humanity, pretty
> much. Striving for excellence and continuing the good fight, whatever
> that good fight is.

On an even larger scale, the end of *Angel* is also sort of like closing
a chapter on my own life. It's sort of sad that people can define times
of their lives with television shows, but look at all the Friends
watchers out there. The TV in today's day and age is more than just
entertainment. I think we spend enough time with the characters in our
favorite shows that they become like family to us - sort of indirect
voyeuristic acquaintances. When they go, it's like losing that friend.
Ever have a pet fish when you were a kid? Remember what it was like when
it died? Pretty terrible, right? I think it's like that. So the end of
Angel marks a sort of end of an era for me. It's not going to hinder me
from functioning or anything, but it's still sad.
 
 So, thanks, [Joss](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0923736/), for the years
of entertainment, for the friends you created and the universe you
opened a window to, just for me. I anxiously await the next great
adventure.
