---
layout: post
title: "Home Theater"
date: 2004-04-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 561
tags: [home]
---
I *finally* got my home theater all hooked up this weekend. Everything,
that is, except for getting the speakers mounted. Right now they're all
hooked up (with the old speaker wire I already had) and sitting on top
of the entertainment center so you can at least hear them.

 I've talked to a few installers and all of them give me the impression
that wiring an exterior wall, while technically possible, is troublesome
at best. They have flexible drill bits that you can use to drill down
into the wall; they have fiber fish kits to fish wires up through the
holes, but in order to get the holes reasonably drilled they're still
going to have to open up my wall in a few places which means I'd end up
with certain spots with wall texture that doesn't quite match up (it's
really, really hard to match wall texture).

 To that end, I've bought some [speaker stands for the rear
speakers](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005T3N3/mhsvortex),
which alleviate the need for me to actually drill into the exterior
wall. They'll work just fine. We'll end up having to put up some plants
or end tables or something to make the room flow a little better, but we
were going to have to do that anyway.

 I went on a mission on Sunday to find a couple of cables (I needed two
optical audio fiber cables 12 ft. long and a composite video/stereo
audio cable 12 ft. long) to finish the hook-up job. Let me tell you -
nothing is open on Easter. Ridiculous. What about all the people who
don't celebrate Easter? What are they supposed to do? (Yes, I celebrate
Easter, but that's not the point.) Thank goodness for The Good Guys and
Fred Meyer. Between the two of those places, I found the cables I needed
and got the system hooked up.

 In other home-related news, I got my barbecue put back together (so we
had some burgers) and I got my computer and cable modem running.
Everything network in the house is wireless because there's no cable
outlet in the office and I didn't want the cable company drilling
through my vinyl siding. The wireless isn't a bad thing, but if I ever
need to configure my router or cable modem directly, I've gotta truck
the computer up the stairs to hook it up directly to the devices. Small
price to pay, I guess.

 Dealt with my first pest problem yesterday. We had these ants in the
driveway and the backyard that got a shot of Raid. So many ants it
looked like moving dirt piles. When Raid says it kills on contact,
they're not lying. Those things stopped moving *instantly*. I should
probably sweep that mess up when I get home. There are a ton of dead ant
carcasses lying about. How untidy.

 I have some pictures from the move, but I haven't gotten them
downloaded to a computer yet. I'll see if I can find some time soon to
do that. It's been a busy couple of weeks lately and there's still more
to do. We're only about half unpacked.
