---
layout: post
title: "Best Foods"
date: 2004-05-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 572
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
No, not the [mayonnaise](http://www.bestfoods.com/). I'm talking about
actual food - like, the best foods out there.
 
 I'm a simple person when it comes to food. I'm not big on most of the
"gourmet," over-spiced stuff. If I want a burger, I want someone to
chuck some ground beef on the grill and call it a day; if it takes you
longer to season the beef and make the patty than it does to cook it,
you're overdoing it.
 
 It occurred to me the other day that [Big
Kat](http://www.hersheynewsroom.com/press/kitkat_story.html) might be
one of the top 10 candy bars of all time. I'm a big fan of the regular
Kit Kat, but super-sizing the thing is brilliance. Now if they'd only
sell a super-sized full Kit Kat (rather than just one Kit Kat stick). I
may go to the store after work and get a bunch of Big Kats just to put
them together into one big Kit Kat.
 
 With that thought in mind, I started thinking about what my favorite
foods are. Like, is there any food that I would be really sad if someone
said I could never eat it again? Here's what I've come up with so far.
 
 **Shrimp.** I love shrimp. Not trying to sound like [Private Benjamin
Buford "Bubba" Blue](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0932112/), I love pretty
much anything with shrimp in it. My favorite has to be the coconut
shrimp, though. Very tasty.
 
 **Cheesecake.** Plain or flavored, doesn't matter. Any kind of
cheesecake. More is better. I am partial to strawberries, so if you have
some, throw 'em on.
 
 **Bread, particularly sourdough.** I can eat a loaf of sourdough bread
just by itself as a meal. Nothing on it, just the bread. I'm also
partial to [King's
Hawaiian](http://www.kingshawaiian.com/products/original.html).
 
 **Cheetos.** Oh, yeah. [The crunchy ones are better than the puffy
ones](http://www.cheetos.com/).
 
 **Hawaiian Punch.** [Way better than any old
Kool-Aid](/archive/2003/08/28/kool-aid-man-vs.-punchy.aspx).
 
 **Pizza.** I'm a meat-lover's fan, but I'd go with your standard
pepperoni or Hawaiian style any day. Hawaiian on white sauce is my
latest favorite.
 
 **Frappuccino.** [Venti mocha
Frappuccino](/archive/2002/03/21/warrior-needs-frappuccino-badly.aspx)
== [ambrosia](http://www.loggia.com/myth/ambrosia.html).
 
 **Tapioca pudding.** Lots of folks don't like this because of the
texture, but I think that's one of the primary reasons I do like it. I
can sit down with a giant tub of this and finish it before you blink.
 
 
 I'm sure there are others, but those are what I'm thinking of right
now. What did I miss?
