---
layout: post
title: "Leak Saga"
date: 2004-05-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 576
tags: [home]
---
I have learned far more about toilets than in the past 24 hours than any
programmer should ever know.

 I went to the [Toiletology 101](http://www.toiletology.com/index.shtml)
site to see how to determine which part in the toilet is leaking and how
to fix it. I figured out that it's the [flush
valve](http://www.toiletology.com/howtofix.shtml), usually the fault of
the flapper/tank-ball thing.

 I investigated the existing flapper and didn't see anything wrong with
it, but I was sure it was just making a bad seal or something, so I went
to the store and picked up a new one.

 Installed the new one, tested again. The leak is still there, but a lot
slower now (about half a centimeter of water drains from the tank every
hour; before it was doing that in about 15 minutes). I think I'm on the
right track, but I think the seal still isn't the greatest.

 I went this morning to [Home Depot](http://www.homedepot.com) and
picked up a [Flusher Fixer
Kit](http://www.fluidmaster.com/flush_products_555c.html). That fixes
the seal that the flapper connects to, which I think is also part of the
problem. I drained the tank and dried it out this morning in
anticipation of that project tonight.

 If that doesn't fix it, then it's the gasket beneath the flush valve,
which means I need to take the tank off the back of the toilet. At that
point, I'm going to have to debate with myself whether it might be an
idea to actually call a plumber. After reading the box on the
replacement flush valve products at Home Depot, it *sounds* easy enough,
but there are reasons that *professional plumbers* exist. If it was so
easy everyone could do it, we wouldn't need them, would we?

 Oh, and a follow-up on my [dishwasher
issues](/archive/2004/05/21/cut-again.aspx): After removing the rubber
band and the broken glass from the mechanism in the bottom of the
dishwasher, it seems to work *slightly* better. It actually washes all
the soap out now (where before it left soap everywhere) and the dishes
look reasonably clean. That said, it's still not as good as the
dishwasher we had in the apartment, so while I may have staved off the
need to buy a new dishwasher, the idea that we need an upgrade has not
left my head. According to [Greg](http://www.greghughes.net), a
dishwasher is one of those things that you go "all-out" on. [Get the top
of the
line](http://www.maytag.com/mths/products/product.jsp?model=MDB9750AWW&cs=0&BV_UseBVCookie=Yes).
I couldn't agree more.
