---
layout: post
title: "Vacation in San Andreas, Day 2"
date: 2004-11-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 689
tags: [playstation,gaming]
---
Day 2 in San Andreas was reasonably eventful.

 I started out the day realizing I was low on funds and would have to
make a quick buck if I was going to save myself from having to drive
back and forth across Los Santos. I decided to impersonate a taxi driver
for a while, which netted me some decent dough, and after 50 fares, I
was informed that all cabs have nitrous on them. Very cool if you need a
fast car.

 I took my money and bought a small shack in the northeast portion of
Los Santos. $10,000 - what a steal! Not much to look at, but somewhere
you can call home.

 My pal Big Smoke let me know that a friend of mine, Jeffrey, was coming
out of jail, so we went to meet him. He's trying to start a rap career
(but he sucks) and figured going to jail would somehow give him street
credibility. Whatever.

 Jeffrey met us outside the jail and informed us to now call him "OG
Loc," which is the stupidest rapper name ever, but it fits with his rap,
which also sucks. We dropped OG Loc off at his new job as a "hygiene
technician" at the Burger Shot.

 I took the downtime to run over to the tattoo parlor and get one of
everything. I'm covered in tattoos now, and the rest of the gang
respects that. I also visited the gym, since I hadn't been in a while,
and built up my muscle and stamina.

 Big Smoke took me to pick up his cousin Mary, who just came in from
Mexico, but - would you believe it? - he was talking about *marijuana*.
Just say no, Big Smoke! But I guess that's probably why they call him
"Big Smoke," and there wasn't much I could do, so I let him do his
thing. Of course, the deal went south, so I had to chase one of the
dealers down and kill him. I tried to reason with him, but no, he wanted
to run. Hey, man - you make your bed, you sleep in it.

 Big Smoke seemed troubled over the whole drug deal gone bad, so I went
over to his house to console him and he decided to take some revenge. I,
of course, attempted once again to talk some sense into him, but he'd
have none of it.

 I'm beginning to think Big Smoke is working with some corrupt cops in
town. They always seem to be at his house when I come over. Weird.

 Anyway, we went to the train station and the drug dealers hopped on a
train and tried to escape. I chased the train down on a conveniently
located motorcycle and Big Smoke, riding on back, gunned them down from
the bike.

 Then I found out there was something going on between Big Smoke and
some Russians, so we went downtown to talk to them, but they ended up
chasing us through town and down a flood control trench. This time I
rode on the back of the bike and Big Smoke drove, so it was up to me to
shoot down any pursuing vehicles. It was rough going there for a while,
but we made it. (To be honest, I'm not sure what Big Smoke got out of
that one, but I have to trust he knows what he's doing.)

 I went back downtown to visit OG Loc at his job, and he was having a
difficult time writing lyrics and breaking into the rap business, so I
offered to help him out by stealing the lyrics from a well-known rap
artist and then killing the rap artist's manager. What are friends for?
Both of those came off without a hitch, and I think OG Loc is going to
be getting a career soon. We'll see.

 Lastly, I decided I needed some more money, so I picked up a job as a
courier at the local market dropping off packages of what resembled
talcum powder. Why people need talcum powder dropped off all over town
is beyond me, but it pays well, so I did it. After doing four sets of
deliveries, the store told me they were very thankful for my work and
now they pay me $2000 a week - free! Very kind of them, and helpful in
my money making efforts.

 I capped off the evening by buying a new place on the west side of Los
Santos so now I have a place to stay wherever I'm at. Gotta love it.

 Heard from home that Bush got elected for a second term and [Oregon
Measure
36](http://www.sos.state.or.us/elections/nov22004/guide/meas/m36_bt.html)

- a measure *amending the state constitution* to ban gay marriage -
passed. I'm thinking about staying in San Andreas and never coming home
because it's going to hell in a handbasket out there. I can't say it any
better than Dan Gillmor, so [read his
statement](http://weblog.siliconvalley.com/column/dangillmor/archives/010986.shtml#010986)
and I say "ditto."
