---
layout: post
title: "The Dumbest National Sport EVER"
date: 2004-07-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 628
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Baseball, it could be argued, is the "national sport" of the United
States. When people talk about the US, and what might be construed as
its "culture," the phrases "baseball" and "Mom's apple pie" come out.

 I don't know about y'all, but my mom didn't really make apple pie all
that much. In fact, I think I could probably count on one hand all the
times Mom cooked an apple pie. (Maybe an apple *crisp* every once in a
while, but not pie.)

 So.

 Jenn and I went to a baseball game at [PGE
Park](http://www.pgepark.com/) last weekend. We watched the [Portland
Beavers](http://www.pgepark.com/beavers/) play the [Las Vegas
51s](http://www.lv51.com/). The original reason for the trip was that
Jenn's niece, Aurora, and her tee-ball team, were all going to go out on
the field.

 We got to the stadium like 20 minutes before the game started. We sat
down in these tiny, tiny seats where I had to straddle the seat in front
of me, knees knocking the shoulders of the hairy biker guy in front of
me (who wasn't too happy about that). I can't say I was happy to have my
feet floating in a puddle of spilt beer from three rows back, either,
but what are you going to do?

 Just before the national anthem, a cloud of identical-looking children
in numbered t-shirts ran out on the field. They distributed themselves
at each of the four bases and the national anthem was sung. After that,
the kids all ran back off the field.

 That was it. That was the whole reason we showed up. They stood on the
field for the national anthem.

 I was prepared to watch some miniature baseball. At the [Winter
Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) games, when the kids come out on the
ice, they actually play hockey. That's cute. Not here, though. No
playing, just standing around. I couldn't even tell which of the
tee-ballers was Jenn's niece.

 Thus commenced the game.

 Now, I am not a baseball fan. I'm in love with the *concept* of
baseball, the *romantic notions it conjures up*, but I *hate the game
itself*. It's slow. It's boring. Nothing happens. Who struck who out?
Does it matter? Why should I care?

 We stayed for an hour and a half and got halfway through the game
before I couldn't take it anymore and we left. I think I can safely pass
on heading in there again and I won't feel like I missed anything.

 I hear that there's a lot of strategy to baseball. Who pitches, and
what kind of pitch... who bats... when the people run from base to
base... The thing is, I don't have time for that. Nor do I care. It's
like watching a slow character-development-based movie where they
haven't taken the time to show you why you should care about the
characters.

 When I think "baseball," I think: hot dogs, hanging out with friends,
relaxing, having a good time. When I actually *see* baseball, I think:
boring. There's not enough going on out in the field. Admittedly, it's
got some of the simplest rules of any sport out there, but it's boring
as hell. On par with curling or shuffleboard. That said, I'm not a
football fan, either - the rules, in my opinion, are far too complex for
what it is.

 I think that's why I'm a hockey fan. There's a lot going on, and the
rules are simple. That's the best of all worlds. Maybe I should have
been born Canadian. Baseball has to be the dumbest national sport EVER.
