---
layout: post
title: "$110 Lunch"
date: 2004-10-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 684
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I found last night that I had my driver's side low-beam headlight out,
so I figured I'd head over to [Oil Can
Henry's](http://www.oilcanhenry.com) to get that replaced during lunch
today. Figure you gotta remove half the engine to get to the damn
headlight socket, it's worth the \$20 parts and labor to replace the
lamp.
 
 I called 'em up this morning to make sure they did that service (they
do) and to verify they had the kind of bulb my car takes (they did).
 
 Got there at lunch and they do replace headlights, but they didn't have
the right kind of bulb.
 
 Made a quick trip to the auto parts store and got a pair (you're
supposed to replace headlights in pairs) of the only kind they carried
that would fit my car. Of course, they only had the top of the line
\$25/bulb kind, so that's \$50 I'll never see again.
 
 On the way back, stopped at GameCrazy and [got my fix for next
week](/archive/2004/10/26/san-andreas-in-the-house.aspx). \$50 more, but
better spent.
 
 Took the bulbs back to Oil Can Henry's and it took four guys to install
them. The part where they had me turn on my lights to check the
installation, asked me to "make sure my lights were on," then started
laughing when I confirmed the lights were all the way on... that didn't
raise my confidence. But when all was said and done, it only cost me
\$10 to get both changed, so I can't complain much about that.
 
 All told, that's \$110 I blew at lunch. Damn. And people tell me that
my *house* is a money sink.
