---
layout: post
title: "Warming Up For Work Again"
date: 2004-01-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 435
tags: [personal]
---
It snowed like nothing else on New Year's Eve and New Year's Day, to the
point that in some cases you actually needed chains or traction tires to
get around. I, fearing the other drivers on the road and their inability
to cope with such circumstances, did not leave the house, opting instead
to watch movies and play games with Jenn. This was probably a much
better use of my time in the long run anyway.

 New Year's Eve Jenn and I went to the [Winter
Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) game against Seattle and watched our
boys lose a game they should have won had they not totally dropped the
ball for the last half. After that we went home and ate junk food. We
barely made it to midnight before we were just too tired and went to
sleep. I wonder if that's evidence of my increasing age, that it
demonstrates how much I care, or if I just lead the wrong kind of
lifestyle to be able to stay up all night. We weren't out and about,
though, and I think had there been more general activity (like a party
or something) I probably would have found the energy to stay awake
longer.

 I've been working on this shelf that I bought at the craft store -
trying to stain it a nice red mahogany color - and I'm finding that this
project really isn't suited to performing in an apartment with no
garage. I can't leave the shelf outside to dry, so I stick it in the
computer room and shut the door (so the cats won't get on it) and now
when you come in the computer room you get a nice high off the fumes. I
can't wait to have a house with an actual garage and a place to do stuff
like this.

 I have also been working on ripping my CDs into 256kbps AAC format and
I'm currently working on "[The Very Best Of Rod
Stewart](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005R1Q9/mhsvortex)."
That gives me 6680 songs, or 19.4 days worth of music, totaling
50.48GB.

 Finally, in my productive streak, I'm working on getting some of my
stuff that I don't want anymore onto [eBay](http://www.ebay.com). I've
never sold anything on eBay before, but I'm sure it can't be that hard.
I've taken the pictures of my items and now I just have to get the HTML
together to display them properly and write up some descriptions. Then
we'll see what happens.

 I was over reading [Penny
Arcade](http://www.penny-arcade.com/news.php3?date=2004-01-02) and they
were talking about a [pretty biased New York Post
article](http://www.nypost.com/seven/12292003/business/14640.htm)
advising people to dump stock in Take Two Interactive because they
produce the *Grand Theft Auto* series of games. I don't even think I
want to comment on the ridiculous nature of the NYP article; the Penny
Arcade guys say it best on their site. I will say, though, that seeing
an article like this discredits the New York Post as a viable news
source for me. If the article had shown up in the "opinions" or
"editorial" section, I might let it slide, but this is supposed to be a
business article reporting *news*. Instead, you get to read a
tabloid-worthy tale from an obvious ultra-conservative. Just exactly
what the world needs.
