---
layout: post
title: "24 Season 3; Anchorman; Resident Evil: Apocalypse"
date: 2004-12-29 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 715
tags: [Media]
---
I've spent some serious time watching movies in the last couple of days,
so I figured I'd fill you in.
 
 [*24*, Season
Three](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002XVQSU/mhsvortex): I
spent the entirety of Monday, from 8:00a to Tuesday at 1:00a, watching
the third season of *24*, marathon style. My dad and Jenn also took part
in the festivities and things went much like [the last marathon (for
season two)](/archive/2004/10/11/24-in-less-than-20.aspx) - lots of fun
with lots of fattening food.
 
 I thought the third season of *24* was good. Maybe not quite as good as
[the second
season](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008YGRU/mhsvortex),
but good nonetheless. I felt more connected to the characters in the
second season, and while the third season had the same good writing and
acting that I've come to expect, I felt there was just something
missing. A couple of the characters really irritated me in the third
season, while I wasn't irritated by anyone in the second season. (I
think they were *supposed* to be irritating, so the effect was right
on.)
 
 I still find it amazing that we got through supposedly 24 hours of
real-time action in 17 hours. That means if you watch this thing on TV,
you're losing 29% of your time in commercials. That's absolutely
unacceptable, and for that reason alone it's worth buying (or renting)
the DVDs to watch it that way. My time is worth more than the networks
would like to allow for.
 
 One interesting item of note: There's a considerable
[overlap](http://www.imdb.com/common-search) of talent between
[*24*](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0285331/) and [*La Femme
Nikita*](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0118379/). I liked both of those
shows. Significant?
 
 Do check out the third season of *24* if you haven't already. You won't
be disappointed.
 
 [*Anchorman: The Legend of Ron
Burgundy*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JMYI/mhsvortex):
I'm a huge Will Ferrell fan. He was great on [Saturday Night
Live](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002I84FI/mhsvortex), I
thought
[*Elf*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002F6BRE/mhsvortex) was
hilarious, and I even had a good time with [*A Night at the
Roxbury*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/6305350191/mhsvortex),
lame as it was. I anticipated good things when I saw the previews for
*Anchorman*, which made me laugh out loud.
 
 I am actually *dumber* for having watched *Anchorman*. Not only was the
entire story generally without focus, the jokes were stupid and the
characters were totally unmemorable. I read the reviews at Amazon on
this and folks compared this favorably to his other movies, saying that
if you liked Ferrell's other work, you'll like this. I disagree: I feel
that Ferrell's other work has been reasonably clever and funny; this is
just garbage. It's almost like the writers couldn't figure out what
would be funny, so they held a contest and took joke submissions, then
pasted the random jokes into a storyboard (regardless of whether they
made any sense) and started shooting.
 
 Not only that, but they did the one unforgivable thing when it comes to
movies: They showed really funny scenes in the preview that *didn't even
make it to the final film*.
 
 Terrible, terrible, terrible. Don't waste your time or your money.
 
 [*Resident Evil:
Apocalypse*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0767834739/mhsvortex):
This movie got panned by critics, and I see why: There's really a very
weak plot and the whole thing revolves around action and action alone. I
say there's a time and place for movies like that. I thought the first
[*Resident
Evil*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002J4X1Q/mhsvortex)
movie was *not bad*, implying that it wasn't award-winningly good, but I
didn't necessarily feel my time was totally wasted. I left it
*entertained*. The same is true here. Weak plot, nonexistant acting
(though I do love [Milla Jovovich](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000170/),
and have found a new affinity for [Sienna
Guillory](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0347149/))... but entertaining. I
think there's something to be said for that.
 
 Not a masterful piece of moviemaking, and I definitely think they need
to improve the quality of video-game-based movies (and movie-based video
games), but it was worth the rental.
