---
layout: post
title: "Troy"
date: 2004-05-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 566
tags: [media,movies]
---
Just got back from [*Troy*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0332452/), the
latest gigantic battle-related movie a la [*Lord of the
Rings*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0001VL0K2/mhsvortex).

 Hmmm.

 *Troy* is a sort of historical fiction deal telling about, well, the
battle of Troy. You know, that whole thing with Helen of Troy - er,
Sparta - and Achilles and all that. Go read [*The
Iliad*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0140275363/mhsvortex) if
you don't know that story, or maybe take some high school history.

 So I don't need to explain the story to you any more than I would need
to explain the plot of something like, say,
[*Titanic*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000JLWW/mhsvortex).
Helen of Troy? Check. Ridiculously huge battle scenes? Check. Trojan
horse? Check. Achilles heel? You got it.

 All that's left to discuss is what I thought.

 Hmmm.

 [Brad Pitt](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000093/) plays a pretty good
Achilles, though I couldn't help but see [Val
Kilmer](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000174/) as Madmartigan from
[*Willow*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXDD/mhsvortex).
He was a reasonably believable fighter; I liked him. I admit I kept
waiting for someone to cut his heel in every battle, though. Maybe
knowing too much about the plot of a movie isn't such a good thing.

 [Diane Kruger](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm1208167/) (no, I don't know
her, either) played Helen. Now, I thought Helen of Troy was supposed to
be some major legendary beauty. Granted, they explore some more
political reasons for the Trojan War here, but that doesn't change the
fact that, while Kruger is sort of cute, she's no legendary beauty.

 Even given all of that, I could have just settled back and watched an
epic battle, but when Briseis, the cousin of the Trojan prince (played
by [Rose Byrne](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0126284/), who was just as
good looking, if not better, than Helen), has a knife at Achilles's
neck, then he spouts some "wisdom-riddled" one-liner and she basically
flips over onto her back and they do it. What?! Sorry, folks, you lost
me there. This isn't [some Bond
film](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00006BH8G/mhsvortex), so I
can't just let that go. If I wanted cheesy sleeping with the enemy, I'd
go [rent
that](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00009WVSL/mhsvortex).

 I'm glad I saw it, but more from the perspective of "three hours at a
movie is way better than three hours at work." I'm glad work paid for
it, too. Had I put in my \$8, I'd have been pissed off.

 Like my coworker sitting next to me said during the film, "Hey! There
are people in that horse! Don't let them in!"

 Save this one for the dollar beer-and-pizza theater. You'll thank me
later, when you're drunk and stuffed with pizza.
