---
layout: post
title: "Progress Towards The House"
date: 2004-01-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 474
tags: [General Ramblings,Homeownership]
---
Jenn and I have been working to get ourselves together so we can get a
house. (I've probably mentioned that before...) We've been getting our
list of wants/don't-wants written down, figuring out the budget, etc.
 
 I think we got ourselves to a point yesterday where it's time to call
the mortgage broker to figure out how much money we can get to start
shopping with. That's a scary proposition for me - first time home
purchase and all, it's a little intimidating. I'm a cheap bastard. I
don't like to spend money in large quantities (yet somehow I'm okay with
buying several smaller items... hmmm....), so thinking about this
stresses me out like nothing else.
 
 It's a positive move, though, since we're both really tired of the
whole apartment lifestyle. Sure, there are benefits - no maintenance
being the primary one - but there are far more drawbacks. I'm tired of
being "attached" to neighbors and hearing them banging around or
flushing the toilet or whatever. I'm tired of being double-parked into
my spot by the people downstairs. I'm tired of smelling what everyone
else is cooking. I'm tired of not actually building any equity with the
money I'm spending and I'm tired of not getting any tax breaks. This
move is long overdue, so we're ready.
 
 In other news, my eBay auctions are sort of iffy. I've gotten bids on
three of my shirts - minimum bids - and one of them was bought with the
"Buy It Now" feature... but there are still six shirts that need to go.
Bah. I'm wondering if I may end up making a Goodwill run. I'm tired of
this hope-on-eBay thing.
 
 I rented a movie called [*So
Close*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000U0X1Q/mhsvortex)
yesterday - a Hong Kong action movie. It was pretty good. It actually
seemed to have a budget, unlike a lot of the other HK movies I've seen,
and the plot was pretty decent with some great action. Check it out if
you're into that sort of thing.
 
 I'm blogging on the laptop using my wireless network, which I'm still
very pleased with, and watching [India
Vision](http://www.i-channel.com/ic/ps.jsp?programID=2350&scheduleStartDate=2004%2F1%2F19&scheduleEndDate=2004%2F1%2F26&month=0&dayOfMonth=25&year=2004)
on the [International Channel](http://www.i-channel.com). I'm not sure
why I'm so intrigued by it, but I am. While it's not an accurate
representation of Indian culture by any means (any more than watching
*Entertainment Tonight* is a representation of US culture), I've noticed
certain things watching. First, there are some *fine* Indian women out
there. Like, better than most of the US models I've seen. Second, they
sing about *everything*. Crazy style. I can't even understand any of it
and I still think it's nuts. Third, everything is styled like *Grease*.
The sing to each other, they change costumes and locations at random
intervals... Nuts.
 
 I think maybe it's the randomness of it all that intrigues me. It makes
so little sense, I can't *not* watch. It's like a deer in headlights.
Damn.
