---
layout: post
title: "Time Is A Blur"
date: 2004-03-23 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 546
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I'm sitting at the allergy clinic, waiting for my weekly shot, and they
have the stupid country music station playing. Apparently this is Toby
Keith singing a song called *American Soldier*. It occurs to me that
this is probably one of the worst capitalist sell-outs I've witnessed
(in a manner of speaking) in a long time. I mean, how cheap do you have
to be to write a really bad tribute song to cash in on the emotions of
military parents and sympathizers? Terrible.
 
 I went to U-Haul this weekend to pick up some "mirror packs" - gigantic
flat boxes you can pack things like framed art in - and ended up
spending like \$80 on boxes. I bought not only the mirror packs, but
they also had these styrofoam corners you can strap onto to the picture
to protect the frame, so I got those, too. But at \$6.50 per box and \$5
per set of corners... well, nobody ever said moving was cheap.
 
 So there was some packing this weekend, but not the quantity you'd
think. Instead, Jenn and I got into this sort of triage mode where
rather than just dumping things into boxes, we're going through
everything and separating it into piles. We've got an eBay pile (things
we want to try to auction off); a garage sale/Goodwill pile (things
we'll try to sell at my parents' upcoming garage sale and donate if it
doesn't go); and a garbage pile (stuff to just pitch out).
 
 As part of that triage, I decided to go through my magazine collection.
I have this pack-rat style problem when it comes to magazines. I'll read
them, then if I find an article I like or pictures I like, I'll keep the
magazine. This reached a particular head during my Sarah Michelle Gellar
phase a few years back and resulted in my having probably 250 magazines
of various natures stashed in the closet. Time to weed out. To that end,
I decided that my pack-rat nature would be satisfied if I somehow kept
the article even if I didn't keep the whole magazine, so I set about
scanning all of the articles that I was interested in keeping. I spent
probably 16 hours on that this weekend, and a couple of hours last
night, and I finally scanned all of the articles out of the magazines
I'm throwing out. 588 pages worth of scans. I won't even get into the
nightmare pile of magazines in the middle of the computer room floor. I
have to clean that up tonight.
 
 Speaking of packing/moving, my parents have listed their house for
sale. They've been toying with the idea of moving into a condo for a
while now and it looks like they're actually committed now, which I
think is a good thing. Not the condo part - I've tried to convince them
out of that; I think it's been too long since they've lived in an
apartment and understood that there's no such thing as a good attached
neighbor - but the fact they've committed to the decision. It's been up
in the air for over a year now, and it's time they shit or get off the
pot.
 
 In other news, Jenn and I watched an episode of [*The Sopranos* season
four](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008PW1F/mhsvortex) via
our On Demand cable a couple of weeks ago and it was intriguing. Enough,
at least, so that we went this weekend and rented the first three
episodes to the [first
season](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00003CXOP/mhsvortex).
We've seen the first two episodes and I'm liking it. I'm not as sucked
in by it as some shows, but something about it compels me to watch. I'm
sort of fascinated by the way it's like
[*GoodFellas*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0790729725/mhsvortex)
meets [*Analyze
This*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00000JGPE/mhsvortex).
 
 Oh, and I've been sucked into that show
[*Wonderfalls*](http://www.fox.com/wonderfalls/). I'm not even really
sure why, but I think it's got something to do with the writing. The
main character, Jaye, sounds like a live action
[*Daria*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005S6KA/mhsvortex),
and the sharpness of the whole thing reminds me of a song by
[Cake](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000003CKH/mhsvortex). I
can't *not* watch it. Maybe I should figure out when its regular time
slot is (we caught a couple of episodes in "special encore" showings). I
asked my mom if she'd seen the show and she had but couldn't watch it.
Apparently there was "too much going on." I think the generation gap is
starting to widen.
