---
layout: post
title: "Cut Again"
date: 2004-05-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 570
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Last Friday I bought a [brand new
blender](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0001LU5OY/mhsvortex)
because our old blender was leaking and pretty much weak (good luck
crushing ice or even making milkshakes). The new blender rules. After
making some piña coladas, though, I finished up a batch, rinsed out the
jar, and while drying it I stabbed my right index finger on the blade.
That sucked, and hurt quite a bit.

 Minor detour: Our dishwasher sucks. Ever since we moved in it hasn't
washed dishes for crap. Okay, now we continue.

 Last night, Jenn and I got so fed up with the stupid dishwasher that we
were considering just using it like a drying rack until we had money to
get a new one, when I reached down in and pushed the turning-spray-thing
in the bottom an dit *barely turned*. On further investigation, I saw a
rubber band wrapped around it, causing it to not move too well. I
reached in and started untangling the rubber band, scraped my finger a
little, and pulled out the rubber band.

 By the time I got the rubber band out, I noticed there was this berry
red juice all over in the bottom of the dishwasher and all over my
hands... and it was *coming out of my right index finger*. That was when
I noticed the gigantic hunk of *broken glass* in the bottom of the
dishwasher that I had cut myself on - not scraped, *cut*.

 Now it's today, and I'm typing (barely) with four fingers on my right
hand as I avoid touching anything with my (now throbbing painfully)
index finger.
