---
layout: post
title: "Parental Control"
date: 2004-01-13 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 449
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
This is probably something that most people aren't bothered by but that
bothers me quite a bit.
 
 I have this friend who subscribes to an Internet service provider who
uses parental control features to "blacklist" certain web sites. On
paper, one would think this sounds like a keen idea - parents can let
their kids surf the web "unsupervised" without the kids seeing anything
"bad." The blacklist gets automatically updated so the latest badness is
hidden from their youthful eyes.
 
 Things like this sound great, don't they? Yeah, except for the fact
that they blacklisted *my site*. That's what makes me think. Am I
purveying porn here? Aside from some minor language issues, am I even
doing anything that offends anyone? Okay, well, maybe I might offend
people, but I'm not sure it's on a level that requires blacklisting by
parental control software.
 
 So I've been going back and forth with my friend over why he submits to
this sort of treatment by his ISP. Apparently he does have some sort of
override control, but just doesn't choose to exercise it. That both
interests and annoys me. I mean, what happens if I'm researching, say,
breast cancer or AIDS? Somehow I think I'd start "protecting myself from
myself," don't you? Stop myself from getting the information I'm looking
for?
 
 I think that the idea of parental control is interesting until you
start really examining it. I think I'd prefer to trust my kids and teach
them what they should and shouldn't look at rather than rely on
automated enforcement of ethics that I may or may not agree with. The
same problems we have with spam filters exist with parental control
software: How do you know if you're filtering out enough bad stuff? And
how do you know you didn't just include content you want to get to?
 
 Maybe I just feel like parental control software is overprotection at
its finest. I feel like it's an illustration of an
over-politically-correct society trying to protect itself from itself,
because God forbid anyone get offended by anything. Sort of like the
whole V-Chip television thing. Is there a need for it? Maybe. But the
fact there's a need for it, I think, signals something larger is wrong.
Wrong with the content? Wrong with society? Wrong with the way we teach
morals? Who knows?
 
 I think it's important to note that this has nothing to do directly
with my friend or the way he teaches his kids. My friend has some of the
smartest, coolest kids on earth and if I ever have kids of my own (which
is not currently on my agenda), I'd hope they turn out half as great as
his. I'm just having issues with the implementation of automated
censorship - it's never been something I agree with, and I'm not about
to agree with it any time soon.
