---
layout: post
title: "Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban"
date: 2004-06-08 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 581
tags: [media,movies]
---
Saw [the latest *Harry Potter*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0304141/) on
Sunday. Figured I'd fill you guys in.

 *Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban*, based on [the book of the
same name](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0439136350/mhsvortex)
by JK Rowling, is about... hang on. You know what? Go read the book.
Seriously. I'll wait.

 Okay, now while those folks are off reading the book, the rest of us
will continue.

 Minor refresher: A believed dangerous individual named Sirius Black
(played by [Gary Oldman](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000198/)) escapes
from the wizard prison of Azkaban and comes after Harry ([Daniel
Radcliffe](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0705356/)). Harry ends up finding
Black and uncovers some interesting information about his (Harry's)
past, particularly in regards to his parents.

 Now that we're all up to speed, here's the deal: There's a new
director, there's a new Dumbledore, and there's a new way of looking at
the Harry Potter series.

 From a direction standpoint, I think [Alfonso
Cuar√≥n](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0190859/) did a decent job. I'm not
sure what I would have done differently, and most of the beefs I had
with the movie could just as easily have been blamed on the screenplay.
I'll give the guy credit where credit is due.

 The new Dumbledore ([Michael
Gambon](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0002091/)) did an outstanding job,
enough that it was an entirely seamless transition to him. Can't ask for
much more than that.

 As for the new way of looking at these movies... In the previous two
books, there was some certain amount of introspection but not so much
that it affected the plot; which is to say, the movies were able to come
out and, even leaving out certain elements from the book, the story was
sufficiently conveyed. In this one, the book contained a lot more in the
way of subtle plot points and things that took place as internal
realizations or dialogue, which would have either been impossible to
show on screen or would have made it drag so slowly as to be
unwatchable. That's a hard thing to put on film, I'll admit, but there
were a few things they left out that I really think they should have
left in.

 **The Patronus:** When Harry manifests his patronus (*expecto
patronum!*), it manifests as a stag because his father was an animagus
who could turn into a stag. Not only did the film not mention *any of
this*, but the patronus didn't really manifest as an animal except for
one quick shot about a second long. Every other time, it only ever
seemed like a white "shield" of some nature. They never did address the
fact that it looked like an animal. I think that's an important point.

 **The Knight Bus:** Didn't the Knight Bus show up more than once in the
book? Yeah, I thought so, too. Too bad it was only a very tiny part of
the movie.

 **Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs:** Harry gets the Marauder's Map
and uses it for about five seconds in the movie; it was much more
important in the book. Anyway, when Professor Lupin gets the map in the
movie and talks about it like he knows exactly what it is... they never
really explain *why* he knows what it is, nor do they explain the
significance of the names "Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Prongs" that
show up on the map. Those names, which represent Professor Lupin, Peter
Pettigrew, Sirius Black, and Harry's father, respectively, illustrates
the relationship between them and sort of provides some insight into
their background. We didn't get *any* of that. For a story about getting
to Harry's background, they sure left a lot of that out.

 We'll let all of that go, though. It was still a good story and a lot
of fun. I'll get it when it's out on DVD... I just have to keep in mind
it's a *movie* and not a *book on film*.
