---
layout: post
title: "On Demand"
date: 2004-03-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 538
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
It's been a busy, busy, busy weekend. This morning I'm getting no
reprieve, either.
 
 Friday we had the house inspection, which, as posted in an earlier
entry, turned out well.
 
 I went home after that and got there about the same time Jenn got home
from work. We unloaded some boxes that she had brought home and we sat
down to watch TV. Interestingly enough, it turns out
[Comcast](http://www.comcast.com) enabled [On Demand
programming](http://www.comcast.com/Benefits/CableDetails/Slot2PageOne.asp)
for us (we have digital cable) so we were able to watch the movie
[*Phone
Booth*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JLQN/mhsvortex)
(which, while not the most exceptional film ever, was still interesting
due to the novelty of the On Demand broadcast. Like a digital video
recorder full of free stuff. Very cool. We ended up watching an episode
of *The Sopranos*, too.
 
 Saturday we started packing. We got a lot of books and things packed up
from the computer room, but if you look in there all you see is a stack
of boxes and you can't tell anything was packed. I can see this is going
to be a long process.
 
 Saturday night we went to see [Super
Diamond](http://www.superdiamond.com/) which, as always, was totally
fun. They changed up their playlist a bit so we heard a couple new ones
(songs I didn't know) and some of the favorites. I think I liked their
old playlist a little better, but change is good, too. (My feet are
still aching from the three-hour standing session.)
 
 Sunday we went shopping and picked up some more boxes (they were having
a buy-two-get-one-free sale on smaller boxes, which we need loads of, so
we broke down and bought some). Then we packed some more. After that,
went to the last hockey game of the regular season, which we won.
Finally, came back home, did a tiny bit more packing, and sat down in
front of the tube.
 
 I'm having all sorts of eBay troubles.
 
 Got in to work this morning and found an email in my inbox from a guy I
sold a t-shirt to on eBay. He lives in Australia and apparently hasn't
gotten his shirt yet (I sent it like a month ago and it should have been
there in four to seven business days). He did get a strange email from
someone asking if he was missing a t-shirt, though, so I'm thinking the
post office delivered it to the wrong address. What the hell am I
supposed to do about that? I don't think you can get delivery
confirmation overseas, and shipping UPS would have cost - seriously -
\$75. And that's the cheap service. What do I do if this guy doesn't get
his shirt? Do I eat the \$24 (cost plus shipping) and give him a refund?
Or do I chalk it up to the stupid post office and say, "Sorry, buddy,
not my fault?" Just what I *didn't* want to have to deal with.
 
 Not to mention I sold another shirt to a guy in the UK who pretty much
dropped off the face of the planet for over a week and just now
reappeared to say, "Oh, sorry, I was out." (Basically.)
 
 Screw this worldwide shipping thing, man. It's too much pain in my ass.
If I just ship to US addresses, I can print postage and get delivery
confirmation right from my computer. If I ship overseas, I end up having
to stand in line for an hour so I can pay for service that apparently
doesn't actually get my package delivered to the right place.
