---
layout: post
title: "24 In Less Than 20"
date: 2004-10-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 673
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Saturday morning at 8:00 my dad showed up, and by 8:30 we were starting
the first episode of [the second season of
*24*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008YGRU/mhsvortex).
 
 Over the course of the rest of the day, we watched, back to back, the
*entire season*.
 
 We took breaks, of course, to go get food, sit and talk, and so on. We
lost a little time on those, but considering there are almost 20 minutes
of commercials in every episode when it airs, it only takes about 16
hours to see all 24 episodes.
 
 Dad left a little after midnight, skipping out on the final four
episodes of the season (those were the ones he had originally seen when
they aired; he hadn't seen the rest), but I watched them, finishing up a
little after 3:00a the next day.
 
 It was a blast. I love hanging out with my dad, and getting a chance to
watch a great story over the course of a day with him gave me the same
feeling that you have when you're a kid having a sleep-over with
friends: sort of giddy... and a little sad when it's time to go home.
 
 We ate junk food (donuts, candy bars, pizza, pop... you name it) and
did nothing but watch the show. It ruled. No responsibility, no jobs, no
problem solving. True decompression.
 
 I noticed an interesting thing after finishing the show. After spending
basically a day with the characters in the show, you get to know them
and like them. You see how they interact with each other, you see how
they live their [fictional] lives. After that day with them, it's hard
to believe they don't exist, and it's hard to see the story end because
they've become your friends.
 
 That happens to me after reading a good book, too, and it makes me
realize how people can get attached (and even lose touch with reality)
after watching soap operas and other long-running serials for years on
end.
 
 Then again, I don't know it would have happened had I watched on a
week-by-week basis the way it's broadcast. As it was, I had a hard time
keeping track of all of the subplot threads going on and occasionally
had to watch the "last time on *24*" summary at the beginning of the
show to keep it all straight.
 
 It also makes me wonder what would happen if I watched some other show
back to back like that. *Alias*, maybe. I already know those characters;
would it have the same effect, or would it anything change at all?
