---
layout: post
title: "Front-Ender, Part 2"
date: 2004-02-10 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 502
tags: [traffic]
---
This is the first follow-up to a Traffic Asshole Of The Week that I've
posted, which, I think, makes this a fairly momentous occasion. Like we
need a moment of silence because someone out there was stupid enough to
make it to TAotW *twice*.

 So, those sort of following this thing realize that [Jenn got
front-ended at a stop
light](/archive/2004/02/05/jenn-gets-front-ended.aspx) last week. After
being given some faulty insurance information, it turns out that the
lady at fault was *driving on a suspended license*. And why, you might
ask, did she have her license suspended?

 ***For driving without insurance***, of course.

 Needless to say, this is not terribly surprising to me, but it is a
highly annoying thing nonetheless. My insurance rates are *sky high* and
I only have one accident - a rear-ender going about 10 mph - on my
record. Why? Because *jackoffs like this feel the need to back up for no
apparent reason in rush hour traffic and not carry insurance*.

 Jenn has followed up with the police and got the insurance information
they have on file for the lady, which is also incorrect. We've gotten no
call back from the lady, either, so it seems Jenn's going to be paying
the \$200 deductible and filing the uninsured motorist claim.

 The real kicker - as if you hadn't already read it - is that this bitch
had the *outright balls* to file an at-fault claim *against Jenn*. The
sheer audacity of it all makes me want to take up arms and hunt her
down.

 Apparently there are also other claims against this lady - tickets and
whatnot that she's evading - and there's some sort of a warrant out for
her... but (and this is something I don't get) the police, for some
reason, can't just go to her house and arrest her. Like, every time they
show up, she's not there, and *that's stopping them*. Shit, I may just
go rob a bank, and when the cops show up to arrest me, I just won't
answer the door. That seems to be a viable thing now.

 If it was up to me, the fucking *SWAT team* would be at this lady's
house. They'd swing in through the windows on ropes and break down the
doors with battering rams. You know what? They wouldn't even have to
arrest her. I'd accept the property damage on her part as due pennance
for the whole ordeal. Maybe they could shoot her in the meaty part of
her leg or something. That'd be fine, too.

 What a load of ridiculous crap. Somehow I'd like to envision a world
where people take *\*gasp\** responsibility for their actions, but I
believe my Utopian dreams are just not meant to be. I've been told I
hold too high of expectations for people and I should lower them lest I
be constantly disappointed. This right here is proof positive that's the
case.
