---
layout: post
title: "Fluid vs. Fixed: The Web Page Layout Debate"
date: 2004-07-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 616
tags: [css]
---
I'm working on a project at work where we use a combination of ASP.NET
user controls, CSS, images, and JavaScript to offer a "theme" sort of
effect. Change the set of user controls, etc., and magically the site
takes on a new look.

 As a demonstration, I implemented two different "themes" for the site -
one being a "fluid" layout (sizes and positions of objects on the screen
being relative to the browser window width) and the other a "fixed"
layout (everything absolutely positioned and sized).

 I am a big proponent of the "fluid" layout, particularly in corporate
sites. I feel that there are too many sites out there that absolutely
size everything, and while it may look like a nice print-based brochure,
I feel that having half of my screen left in white space because the
site designer fixed everything at 800 pixels wide and I'm running my
monitor at 1600x1200 is a little less than optimal. Not to mention the
accessibility issues surrounding absolute font sizes.

 I got asked a question this morning and I couldn't handle it any more.
"On the 'fluid' themes, will we ever be able to avoid [text] wrapping?
For example, on [the fluid theme we implemented, if you] change to
largest fonts, make your browser about the size of an 8x6 screen and it
wraps out the wazzoo. It will be hard to say 'that is how it is'..."

 My (slightly edited) response:

 In a fluid theme you will never avoid text wrapping. NEVER. I realize
this is a difficult thing to accept and it's why many places don't
implement it. That said, text wrapping is a natural occurrence that
*should happen*.

 Look at some examples in your everyday life that you don't think twice
about... and might consider it crazy if text wrapping didn't occur:

-   Outlook
-   Amazon.com
-   Word



 Using a fluid layout is a *paradigm shift*. People need to stop
thinking in terms of "do all these things line up pixel by pixel" or
"how much exact control can I exert over my web site to make every
single experience 100% identical" and move into the idea that people
with different monitor resolutions, font size settings (which may
override ours, whether we like it or not – check out the "Accessibility"
button on the "General" tab on the Internet Explorer "Internet Options"
menu... Tools -\> Internet Options), and other needs will have to be
accommodated. What happens when a blind person comes in with a screen
reader? Are they going to care that some error message might wrap to the
next line? What about browser compatibility? We already know different
browsers render things differently... do you really want to fight and
tweak with every single browser out there to make sure text doesn't
wrap?

 The solution is not to fight against it but to *design for it*. Embrace
it, *assume it will happen*, and accommodate for that.

 I realize in the fluid theme we've made some strides towards that, but
as you're also noticing, we're finding some shortcomings with it that we
failed to design for. I don't have all the answers here. Maybe we need
to step back and take some actual time to redesign it. Maybe we need to
step back and look at the whole way the site works in relation to themes
and invest time in making that more robust. We probably need a graphic
designer who knows how to work with the web, and we need them to create
a more robust "fluid" layout.

 I can't stress enough that the focus should not be on how to *avoid*
text wrapping but how to *design to it*. Maybe error messages should all
show up in validation summaries at the top of the page rather than in
text next to the field with the error (and then just display a little
error icon next to the problem field). Maybe they show up on the next
line (or on the line above the field) rather than next to the field
where wrapping is disturbing.

 Side note: Consider this: when you say "I don't want the page to be
less than X pixels wide" you're once again working in pixels. If any
measurement you mention has the word "pixels," "points," or "picas," or
any unit other than a relative percentage based on the browser size,
you're back working in "print mode." Print mode is fine when you're
talking about how you want a given page to print out when the user
clicks the "print" button. It's much less okay if you're trying to work
in a fluid mode. Instead, try something like: "I want a three column
layout with a header and footer. I want the header to have the site logo
and some navigation. The logo appears above the navigation tabs. The
font size in the main navigation tabs should be 'x-small' and the sub
navigation tabs should be size 'xx-small.' Column 1 should be 15% of the
browser window width, Column 2 should be 65%, and Column 3 should be the
remaining 20%. The text in each column should be size 'small.' The
footer text should be 'xx-small.'" Right there, I just defined a
complete site layout using relative positioning ("above" or "below," in
relation to headers and footers) and relative sizing (percentages or
relative font sizes). Never once did I provide a hard measurement for
any of the items that would appear on the screen.

 I realize that's *not* a simple task. It is giving up a lot of control
over the page layout. The user is the person who reaps the benefits of
our forethought, though, and isn't the user the ultimate, end customer
we need to please?

 We can go around and around with this all day for the rest of our
lives. It's one of the never-ending battles - [Google for "fluid
layout"](http://www.google.com/search?hl=en&ie=UTF-8&q=fluid+layout) and
you'll find everything from discussion groups to
[usability](http://www.humanfactors.com/downloads/oct022.htm)
[studies](http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/3S/layout.htm)
- between web designers. The long and the short of it is, you can't have
your cake and eat it, too. There are benefits and drawbacks to both
fluid and fixed layouts, and based on the layout type you choose, you
need to design to it and embrace it for what it is.
