---
layout: post
title: "Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire"
date: 2005-11-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 918
tags: [Media]
---
Saw the [latest installment of Harry
Potter](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0330373/) this weekend, and it rocks.
I am so pleasantly surprised to see them get back to the books rather
than taking too much "creative license" or whatever and ruining the
thing the way they did with the last one. In all honesty, I wasn't
looking forward much to this one because I was afraid they'd butcher it
like they did with the last one. Not so - this is definitely the best
since the original movie.
 
 I won't review the plot, since there's a whole book on it and you can
find out about that online. The question is, "Should you go see it?" The
answer is an unequivocal yes.
 
 A lot happened in the book, and I don't want you to think that they
didn't cut anything, because they did. The beginning, in particular, was
chopped down. Nothing to be too disappointed about because from a plot
perspective, you're not missing much - a bit of character development
and background, but nothing that would translate well to the screen.
That said, the things that could be shown were, and they did a fantastic
job with them.
 
 The effects continue to impress me. With each episode, they get better
and better with the effect quality and the level of sheer cool they
throw out there. The magic, the creatures... it all totally looks
exactly the way you imagined it, and it's brilliance to see it
happening.
 
 What I'm most pleased with, though, is that the screen translation of
the book retained the awkwardness of growing up that was so important to
the ongoing character development. I was afraid that since it wasn't a
driving plot point they would nix it, but they carried it off well - the
characters' expressions and actions reflecting the whole time the
changes that their lives are undertaking. It totally captures that stage
of adolescence where you're discovering dating and the social
difficulties that ensue. Great in the book; just as great in the movie.
 
 All the actors did a fantastic job, as usual, and the new faces...
perfect casting. Love it. I don't want to give too much away - you'll
just have to see.
 
 Long story short - check it out. You'll be glad you did.
 
 I already can't wait for the next one.
