---
layout: post
title: "Halloween 2005"
date: 2005-10-31 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 911
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
[![Wonka - click for the full
view]({{ site.url }}/images/20051031wonka.jpg)Folks
have wanted to see what my [Wonka
costume](/archive/2005/10/02/wonka-costume-complete.aspx) turned out
like, so [here's a
photo]({{ site.url }}/images/20051031wonka.jpg).
It turned out pretty well, I think, though the wig and gloves made me
super hot (like, the heat was darn close to stifling) and it was sort of
a pain to get into and out of - not so great at a party.

 [![Stu as Bo Peep - click for the full
view]({{ site.url }}/images/20051031bopeep.jpg)[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net)
went as [Bo
Peep]({{ site.url }}/images/20051031bopeep.jpg),
and that turned out pretty well. I think the hairy-legs-under-tights is
what makes it. Shaved chest, hairy legs. Right on, brotha.

 [Jenn and Tif looked
great]({{ site.url }}/images/20051031jenn_tif.jpg)
in their costumes as well (too bad they don't wear those more often...
:) ).

 Saturday night was Jason and Tracy's yearly party, which is the shindig
to end all shindigs and is looked forward to every year. (It just
happened two days ago, and I'm already stoked for next year.) We played
our new favorite game - shot checkers (get jumped, take a shot) - and
took all Sunday to recover. Great party, though, and I even won best
costume.

 Today at work is sort of a rinse since everyone wants to come by and
see the costume so interruptions are frequent. I got $25 at Barnes &
Noble for "coolest costume" at our company contest, which is sweet. Stu
got "most original" and got a gift card to a restaurant. Can't beat
that!

 We shall see what next year has in store. I'd like to get some sort of
group costume going, but I'm not sure what we'd all be that folks would
recognize.
