---
layout: post
title: "Christmas 2005"
date: 2005-12-29 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 939
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Enjoyed a great Christmas this year. Christmas Eve was spent in
recovery, it being the day after [the *24*: Season 4
marathon](/archive/2005/12/24/24-season-4.aspx). Did end up going out to
try to get some last minute stocking stuffers, but after an hour just to
get to the mall 15 minutes away and another 20 minutes in the parking
lot not finding a spot, we decided to just go to Fred Meyer and load up
there.
 
 Of course, that turned into an unintended shopping spree for me. See, I
got Jenn some [tickets to see Cirque du
Soleil](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/showstickets/varekai/intro/intro.htm)
(which weren't cheap) and I was going to do the "fewer, more expensive
gifts" thing, but Jenn loves quantity (she could open 100 empty boxes
and that would just *rock*) so I thought I'd pick up some smaller things
for her stocking so she'd have stuff to open. Like I said, though, that
turned into an unintended shopping spree as I found all sorts of neat
things I knew she'd like, so I just got them all anyway. Love the credit
card.
 
 Christmas morning we went to Jenn's parents' house for breakfast and a
little gift exchange. The big one here was a [AAA Plus
membership](http://www.aaa.com) for both Jenn and I, which is fantastic,
especially because I'm sick to death of changing Jenn's stupid flat
tires. She's like a flat tire machine. Now she can call some other poor
schmuck to come do it.
 
 After that, we moved on to my parents' house for a late lunch and some
more gift exchanging. [Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net/) and Tif
joined us there, which was cool since we had so much fun [together on
Thanksgiving](/archive/2005/11/28/thanksgiving-2005.aspx). Played some
games, laughed, and generally had a good time.
 
 Some of the things I came out with:
[*Soul Calibur
III*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000935256/mhsvortex)

[*We Love
Katamari*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A5K5MI/mhsvortex)

[*Super Mario
Sunshine*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000066JRN/mhsvortex)

[Nintendo Gamecube Wavebird wireless
controller](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005BOSF/mhsvortex)
(after a couple of returns/exchanges)

Some bookends that my grandfather brought back from the Philippines when
he was over there in WWII (that might not sound cool to you, but there's
sentimental value, so it's cool to me)

A crapload of candy

[*House*: Season
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0009WPM1Q/mhsvortex)

[*Lost*: Season
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JNOG/mhsvortex) and the
[companion
guide](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1401308155/mhsvortex)

[One of The Cubes
(Joe)](http://www.thinkgeek.com/geektoys/cubegoodies/722a/)

[A "Joss Whedon Is My Master Now"
t-shirt](http://www.thinkgeek.com/pvp/swag/77da/)

[A set of
Tantrix](http://www.familygamesamerica.com/FamilyGames/consumers/ProductsBrainTeasersTantrix.asp)

[*Serenity* Role Playing
Game](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/1931567506/mhsvortex)

 
 In all, a pretty good haul. Lots of stuff to entertain me for a while,
and a lot of games to play, so I'd best get cracking on the ones I'm in
the middle of.
 
 To that end, I finished up [*Prince of Persia: Warrior
Within*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002CHJ3C/mhsvortex) on
Tuesday. I ended up starting the whole thing over on "Easy" mode because
it was too damn difficult on "Normal." I never said I was a master
gamer, right? That said, I read a lot of reviews saying how other folks
found it pretty difficult, and since I'm in it for the fun of the game
and the feeling of success, well... once I got stuck in "Normal" mode, I
just figured it'd be better to start over in "Easy." I figure, it's cool
to have to fight the boss character three or four times before you get
it, but when you're only halfway through the game and fighting the boss
for the 15th time doesn't get you through, it needs to be easier.
 
 Having finished that, and having [worked through the stuff in *Soul
Calibur II* with
Stu](/archive/2005/12/19/the-cat-likes-sugar-cookies.aspx), I went on to
work on finishing the original [*Katamari
Damacy*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002Y2XXQ/mhsvortex)
(that is, collecting the Royal Presents and finishing the levels I
hadn't finished yet). What I'm trying to do is finish these prior
halfway-done games so I can cleanly move on to the new ones I got
without going, "Oh, yeah... I guess I never really finished the first
one, huh?" Gotta have that closure.
 
 So during this week while I'm off, that's what I'm doing - finishing
games I haven't finished, just taking it easy. Only two bumps in the
road.
 
 First, I had planned to have lunch with an old friend of mine a couple
days ago, but after waiting for 15 minutes, he never showed up. Got home
later that day to find messages on my home phone saying how he was
having trouble finding the place (that was at 15 minutes past when he
was supposed to be there) and then how he finally found it but I wasn't
there (that was at 30 minutes late). Guess we'll have to reschedule, but
I was hoping to have lunch with him and meet his new girlfriend. Oh
well.
 
 Second, I looked at my work email. Jenn has warned me about doing this
and I know better, but I did it anyway. Without going into it, I'll just
say this: I hate people who wait until you're on vacation so they can
enact poor decisions simply because you're not there to contest them.
Folks wonder why I don't go on vacation often, and that's why - two
steps forward, one step back. Fan-fucking-tastic.
 
 A couple of [Mike's](http://www.mikeshardlemonade.com/) and I was doing
a little better. Makes me think drinking at work should be allowed
because I might be a little more laid back and easy-going. That said, I
don't think I get paid to be laid back... *someone* has to actively care
about what's going on.
 
 Well, the cat's shoving toy mice under the office door, indicating she
wants to play, so I'd best go take care of that. (I'm a sucker for that
tiny cat. One of the myriad reasons I don't work at home as often as my
teammates - distractions!)
