---
layout: post
title: "Thanksgiving 2005"
date: 2005-11-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 923
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
[The
training](/archive/2005/11/22/2734b-updating-your-database-development-skills-to-microsoft-sql-server.aspx)
[I was
in](/archive/2005/11/23/2734b-updating-your-database-development-skills-to-microsoft-sql-server-again.aspx)
transitioned nicely into Thanksgiving. It was almost like having a whole
week of vacation... but not.

 Thursday (Thanksgiving) we went to the Hometown Buffet for dinner. My
parents, my sister Tori, Jenn, my grandfather,
[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net), and Tif all went. This proved to
be an excellent answer to all of the issues that usually arise with
Thanksgiving dinner. For example, what if someone (like me) doesn't like
turkey? No problem - you can have pretty much anything you want. What
about the cleanup? There is none. Preparation? Nope. Everyone gets what
they want, and as much of it as they want. It couldn't be any better. I
even had a cheeseburger. Right on! Plus, Granddad paid. Thanks,
Granddad!

 After dinner, Jenn went off to visit her family (and would later rejoin
us), Granddad went to visit some other friends, and the rest of us
returned to my parents' place for some games. We played *Lord of the
Rings* Risk, [Apples to
Apples](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000246MQU/mhsvortex),
and even got some [Donkey
Konga](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0007ZSHOO/mhsvortex) in
there. (Bongos on Thanksgiving is cool.) That went reasonably late into
the evening, then we called it a night and departed for our respective
residences.

 Black Friday came and I had no intention of going anywhere, nor did I.
Instead, Stu and Tif came over. Stu and I played some of [The
Warriors](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0001AVZ5I/mhsvortex)
(like, 8 hours' worth) while the ladies entertained themselves. The
night ran late, but it was awesome - the first time in a while I've
gotten a decent gaming session in.

 (As far as The Warriors is concerned... it's a lot of fun, but the
camera could use some work. It's a pain to control. That, and in a
two-player game the screen is split vertically and it would have been
better to split it horizontally because there is very little vertical
movement. But it's fun, and a good two-player game.)

 Saturday Jenn and I ran around to stores looking to reap the benefits
of the remaining sales on a few items but came out empty-handed. That
evening, though, we went to the [Winter
Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) hockey game to see the Teddy Bear
Toss. When the Hawks score their first goal, the crowd throws stuffed
animals onto the ice which then get collected and distributed to local
childrens' hospitals. Good fun for a good cause. Each year they try to
break the record set by the year before. This year we beat last year's
record (and set the new league record) with 21,067 bears donated. That's
pretty good.

 Oh, Saturday I discovered I'm allergic to my deodorant, too (causes a
nice rash - thanks, Speed Stick Gel), so I'm going without for a couple
of days (sorry, co-workers) to let the rash go away and I'm going to
have to shop for a new one. (They stopped making the one I had been
using for years, so I had to switch - unfortunately, I chose poorly.)
*Awesome.*

 Sunday was sort of a "catch up on all the stuff you've neglected" day.
From morning until around 1:00p Jenn and I were outside cleaning up the
yard. Had a hell of a time getting the lawnmower to start and just about
kicked the crap out of it when I found the secret - you have to tip it
back slightly while you're starting it. That's not documented anywhere
and I don't remember having to do that before, but that's the trick.
Weird.

 After the lawn, having played The Warriors with Stu on Friday, I went
to the video store and rented [the 1979 movie the game is based
on](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A6T1JU/mhsvortex). It
wasn't too bad, and the game is totally dead on with its reproduction. I
also rented [*Logan's
Run*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00004VVNB/mhsvortex) (I
wanted to see it for the pop culture reference, but the movie itself is
*horrible*) and [*The
Jacket*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0009G3B0G/mhsvortex)
(which was pretty decent, plus [Keira
Knightley](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0461136/) is hot).

 And now it's Monday and I'm catching up on email and so on. Somehow I
think it's going to be a looooong week.
