---
layout: post
title: "Serenity"
date: 2005-10-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 902
tags: [media,movies,tv]
---
Jenn, [Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net), Tif, and I went to see
[*Serenity*](http://browncoats.serenitymovie.com/serenity/index.html?fuseaction=tools.invlink&u=tillig&linkID=36)
on Sunday.

 That is, hands down, *the best movie I've seen all year*.

 In fact, I haven't seen a movie I liked that much in quite some time.
[*Batman
Begins*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000AU9UYM/mhsvortex)
was pretty darn good, and I loved [*Sin
City*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00005JNTX/mhsvortex), but
[*Serenity*](http://browncoats.serenitymovie.com/serenity/index.html?fuseaction=tools.invlink&u=tillig&linkID=36)
really just roped me in.

 If you want to get cliche about it,
[*Serenity*](http://browncoats.serenitymovie.com/serenity/index.html?fuseaction=tools.invlink&u=tillig&linkID=36)
is the story of a group of ragtag rebel smugglers who do their best to
stick it to the man and barely scrape by on usually illegal jobs. The
crew has a particular member on board, though, who is pursued by the
government, so the crew has to always stay one step ahead of the law.

 But that's so cliche, and it doesn't remotely do the film justice.

[*Serenity*](http://browncoats.serenitymovie.com/serenity/index.html?fuseaction=tools.invlink&u=tillig&linkID=36)
is the film continuation of the [very unfortunately] canceled television
series
[*Firefly*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000AQS0F/mhsvortex).
You don't have to have watched the show in order to love this movie,
though - the movie carries itself, and while it has a few special
rewards for the watchers of the show, folks who haven't seen it will
still get it... and maybe even a desire to see the rest of the story by
[picking up the
DVDs](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0000AQS0F/mhsvortex).

 The style of the show (and the movie) is sort of a "Western in space."
When I say that, you're going to think of something like *Star Trek* or
what-have-you, and that's not entirely accurate. Think more Western -
like, with horses and such. Yeah, that sounds really weird, doesn't it?
It works perfectly, though - a lot better than you'd anticipate - and it
fits in with the way the universe is laid out (where the interior
planets in the system are highly populous and built up, but the planets
in the outer rim are still being settled, so they don't have as much
technology and so forth).

 The film has the perfect mix of action, humor, and emotion, making you
totally care about the characters and their adventures, which is well
more than I can say about most movies. There are happy moments, there
are sad moments, there are funny moments, and there are moments where
you just think, "Wow, that was *so cool*." The funny stuff had the
entire theater laughing out loud, which not only made it more fun
(because the group was into it), but it also showed that humor can be
successfully pulled off in a sci-fi or action film without having to
resort to terrible one-liners. (Not to say that there aren't some
one-liners, just that they're able to pull it off in this movie.)

 I'm reluctant to give too much more than that lest I spoil the plot and
the surprises. Suffice to say the cast did a fantastic job, the effects
were spectacular, and [Joss Whedon](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0923736/)
not only did his standard fantastic writing job but also proved he can
direct. I absolutely *cannot wait* for a sequel, and rumor has it that
if
[*Serenity*](http://browncoats.serenitymovie.com/serenity/index.html?fuseaction=tools.invlink&u=tillig&linkID=36)
does well, we may even see that sequel.

 It was second in the box office this weekend, which is unfortunate -
I'd have liked to have seen it \#1. But \#2 isn't bad, and hopefully
this will send some sort of message to the powers that be that people do
care about good story and characters, even if the 'verse is a little
eclectic. Go out and see this - it's worth the big screen money - and
when it comes out on DVD, get a copy for yourself and one for a friend.
It's that good.
