---
layout: post
title: "Unleashed"
date: 2005-05-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 814
tags: [Media]
---
[Jet Li](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001472/) is one of the baddest ass
guys out there. Followed closely, though in a different fashion, by [Luc
Besson](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000108/). So when I saw a movie
coming out that involved the both of them, there's no way I could pass
it up.
 
 [*Unleashed*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0342258/) is the story of
Danny (Jet Li), a guy who has been brought up like a dog - collar and
all - by a British loan shark named Bart (played by [Bob
Hoskins](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001364/)) and is used to help in
collecting on overdue accounts. Primarily this involves beating large
numbers of burly guys to a pulp in what looks like an effortless
fashion. Eventually Danny escapes and befriends a blind man ([Morgan
Freeman](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000151/)) and his daughter ([Kerry
Condon](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0174403/)), who help him re-learn
what living a life is.
 
 It sounds sappy, but it was really cool. There was just the right
amount of action - really cool action, I might add - mixed with story
such that the whole thing felt very balanced. You don't come walking out
of the theater thinking, "Man, the story was so light," or, "Man, there
definitely wasn't enough fighting in there."
 
 That, plus some great acting on the parts of all of the cast, combined
to make one of the best movies I've seen in quite some time.
 
 Those folks who like to overanalyze movies will definitely find some
holes. Like, why would a blind guy who has no idea who this 40-year-old
man in the dog collar is decide to take him in and treat him like
family? But don't overanalyze the thing. Just roll with it. It's a good
ride, and you'll like it.
 
 I'll definitely be picking this one up on DVD when it's out. Highly
recommended - go see it.
