---
layout: post
title: "Sin City"
date: 2005-04-05 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 779
tags: [Media]
---
On Sunday we went to see [*Sin City*](http://www.sincitythemovie.com/)
with [Stu and Tiff](http://www.stuartthompson.net).
 
 Hands down, that movie *rocked*.
 
 I was always a big fan of the comics (and have all of them) but when I
saw they were making a movie I could hardly wait to check it out. I
wasn't disappointed.
 
 They combined the original *Sin City* story (with my favorite
character, Marv) with *That Yellow Bastard* and *The Big Fat Kill*. The
really cool thing was that they sort of intermingled them so you could
see how the timelines overlapped (which is also in the comics, but not
quite as obvious if you're not paying attention).
 
 I didn't really picture [Mickey
Rourke](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000620/) as Marv, but he did a great
job. I was also pleased to see [Nick
Stahl](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0001763/) (who I've grown to love
through *Carnivale*) as the Yellow Bastard.
 
 The best part of the whole thing was that they stuck dead on to the
comics. I mean, so dead on that you could hold the comic up to the
screen and match the various shots with panels in the book. The dialog
was word-for-word out of the comics. That was awesome. I hate it when
they adapt a book for film and then totally deviate from the original
work. This was everything I hoped it would be.
 
 Check it out. It's worth full price. Especially if you liked the *Kill
Bill* series, this is right up your alley. I can't wait until it comes
out on DVD. I'm getting the super-mega-ultra version (in whatever form
that takes). Too cool.
