---
layout: post
title: "Hanselingo"
date: 2005-03-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 770
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
[Scott Hanselman](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/) works with me on
random crap at work, and over the course of time I've gotten to know a
little more about how he works and stuff he says all the time, and I
have to call BS on him every once in a while, so to speak. We all have
our catch phrases or whatever, I just find there's a whole dialect
forming solely based on Hanselisms. We'll call this "Hanselingo" - *The
Language of the Hanselman*.
 
 **Hanselminutes**: A unit of time in a continuum unique to Scott.
Started when I asked him if I could get a feature enhancement on a bit
of code he was working on. "Sure, gimme 10 minutes," he said. Two weeks
later, I'm still waiting the 10 minutes. (Yes, it did eventually get
done.) That was "10 Hanselminutes."
 
 **Thanks For Your Patience**: This is a classic phrase that you'll
usually get in a reasonably patronizing tone when you're being slow to
pick something up... or Scott perceives you're being slow to pick it up.
A "nice" way of turning the situation around and not only making you
feel stupid but guilty for eating up time as well.
 
 **Cakemail** or **cmail**: An email sent with a non sequitur answer.
Derives from a random phrase that one might interject into a
conversation ("Hey, Scott, what exactly is this method doing?" "I like
cake!"). Typically the result of the fact he's got 10 things to do and
time enough for five of them.
 
 **"I'm not sayin'..., I'm just sayin'...**: An easy way out when you're
telling someone something they don't want to hear. "You know, this could
really be improved if you held to any sort of quality standards
whatsoever." "What?!" "I'm not sayin'... I'm just sayin'..." Usually
accompanied by hand gestures: the "I'm not sayin'" gets the hands raised
in the air, like a small, defensive "hands up" maneuver; the "I'm just
sayin'" gets the hands pushed forward, palms up, like an offering.
 
 Scott's the man, but I just gotta give him crap. It makes my world go
'round. :)
