---
layout: post
title: "The Cat Likes Sugar Cookies"
date: 2005-12-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 935
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Pretty rockin' weekend this weekend. Both days I got up at like 7:00a
(just couldn't sleep anymore... for some reason I can't really "sleep
in" like I used to) and played [*Prince of Persia: Warrior
Within*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002CHJ3C/mhsvortex)
until 10:00a or whenever I felt that it was time to take a shower.

 On Saturday Jenn and I went to [the comic store](http://www.tfaw.com)
and then were going to follow that up with a trip to the mall to pick up
stocking stuffers when we got caught in probably the worst traffic I've
ever seen. I had to get off the freeway and take back roads for like an
hour to get the five miles or whatever ridiculous short distance it was
from us to the mall, then proceeded to sit for another half hour just
getting into the parking lot, at which point we decided to skip the
whole thing and go home. Another 45 minutes or so and we had escaped the
clutches of holiday capitalism.

 Oh, we did stop at Target, though, and we picked up a couple of those
buckets of frozen drink mix you can get. They had "Frosty Eggnog" and
"Mint Chocolatini" that both sounded good. A quick trip to the liquor
store had those setting up in the freezer outside.

 Saturday night didn't really do much anything. Watched some TV. That's
about it.

 Sunday, after my round of gaming I went outside to put the protective
cover up on the awning. Good thing, too, because it got snowy and did a
little freezing rain action - don't need that gumming up the works.

 Finished that up and after a ridiculously long wait for the cable guy
to show up and fix Stu's cable modem, Stu and Tiff came over. We went to
Qdoba for lunch, then came back and while Jenn and Tiff made sugar
cookies Stu and I played [*Soul Calibur
2*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008H2IW/mhsvortex) and
[*Mario Golf: Toadstool
Tour*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00009PS22/mhsvortex)
(where Stu got an awesome +28 score in a single round of golf -
*harsh*). The *SC2* was a lot of fun - we played the "Weapons Master"
mode and finished it the first round through (once you do that you
unlock all these "extra missions" that we didn't want to get into at the
time). It validated my belief that enough strategic button mashing can,
in fact, make you successful. Plus, it makes me want to get the new
[*Soul Calibur
3*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000935256/mhsvortex).

 We busted out the frozen drink buckets to try them out. Both are really
good, though most of us happened to go for the "Frosty Eggnog." (Don't
worry, Mint Chocolatini, I have not forgotten you!)

 Woke up this morning and noticed that the kitties hadn't eaten much
food, so I didn't need to add any new to their bowls. Walked downstairs
to find one of the plates of sugar cookies totally uncovered and one
cookie in several pieces on the floor. Asked Jenn about it and she said
she had trouble keeping the Tiny Cat out of the cookies while she was
making them... turns out those cookies, covered or not, were not safe
from the ravages of that little turd. Cleaned up the cookie bits, put
the remaining cookies away, and now... work.

 I have only Monday through Wednesday to work this week, though, and
Friday everyone's coming over for the [*24*: Season
Four](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B837XI/mhsvortex)
marathon at my house, which I'm totally looking forward to. Christmas
spirit, here I come!
