---
layout: post
title: "Closer"
date: 2005-06-06 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 834
tags: [Media]
---
I rented the movie
[*Closer*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0007OCG4W/mhsvortex)
this weekend. I wasn't real hot on checking it out, but there wasn't
much else that looked interesting at the time and, hey, it has [Natalie
Portman](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0000204/) in it, so how could I say
no?
 
 Loooong story short, the movie went like this: Natalie Portman, a
stripper, randomly meets [Jude Law](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0000179/),
a writer, while crossing the street in London. They fall in love. Time
passes. Jude Law gets his picture taken by [Julia
Roberts](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0000210/) and somehow during the
shoot they fall in love, but Julia's reluctant because of Natalie, so
nothing happens. Jude Law decides the best way to get back at Julia for
not condoning his cheating on Natalie is to get in some sex chat with
[Clive Owen](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0654110/), pretend that he's
Julia, and convince Clive to go meet Julia. Clive meets Julia and they
fall in love. You following this? Eventually you find out that Jude and
Julia have been dating behind Natalie and Clive's backs, respectively,
and that everyone is lying to everyone else. Ridiculous fumbling about
ensues and, in the end, Jude's single, Natalie leaves London, and Clive
and Julia are together.
 
 I can see why the critics loved this movie. They always love movies
like this. Movies based on poor communication. Movies that want to seem
intellectual by trying to get you to think about the role that lying
plays in even the most intimate relationships. Movies that you can
imagine preppy folks leaving the art house and heading over to the local
indie coffee shop so they can discuss the philosophy of this and the
concept of that, generally making them feel like they are better people
for having seen it.
 
 (For reference, [comments on the film at
IMDB](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0376541/#comment) include descriptions
like "thought-provoking," "multidimensional," and "rawly realistic." I
think the avant-garde film audience needs to step away from their
computer terminals for a bit.)
 
 Here's what I got from this movie. First, don't cheat on your
significant other - it only leads to bad news. If you do cheat, just get
it out there - maintaining the lie only seems to make it worse later.
And, lastly, if you're a liar and you lie about something really
important (like your *name*), you'd better make damn sure no one's going
to find out about it.
 
 In all, just pass. I mean, I *love* Natalie Portman and pretty much see
everything she's in... but I feel like I'd rather have spent the time
watching [*The
Professional*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00004YYDI/mhsvortex)
again than have the pretentiousness of *Closer* waved in my face.
