---
layout: post
title: "Save Points Are Crap"
date: 2005-10-25 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 910
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I finished [*God of
War*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0002XL3BA/mhsvortex) on
Saturday and have come to the conclusion that the concept of "save
points" in games is crap.
 
 See, I'm not a very good gamer and I don't have a lot of time. I'm sure
there are folks out there who had no problem getting through [the
ridiculous set of jumping puzzles in
hell](/archive/2005/10/21/hell-is-full-of-jumping-puzzles.aspx), which
just goes to prove I'm not the greatest gamer. What happened on
Saturday, though... grrrrr....
 
 The last battle of the game is with Ares, the God of War. Big surprise
from the title of the game, right? Anyway, you fight him and it's pretty
difficult but it's not impossible. I lost the battle twice while I
figured out how he moved and such, then killed him the third time. For a
boss battle, that's pretty good. If I fail about five times on a boss
battle, that's okay. Much more than that and I start thinking that maybe
it's a little too hard. I mean, I like a good challenge, but I don't
want to sit there fighting the same guy all day. I digress.
 
 So I fought Ares and kicked his ass, only to be put into a second "boss
battle" where you have to fight a seemingly infinite set of clones of
yourself. I think I lost that battle probably 20 or 30 times in a row.
Seriously. Fighting Ares before this was a cake walk. But I beat this
clone battle, too, and thought, "Yes! I'm done!"
 
 Fighting Ares the first time took about five minutes each battle on
average. Losing twice means that battle ran me 15 minutes. 15 minutes
after I've already played a bunch, so I'm pretty much done by the time I
beat him. But there's no save point, so I can't quit the game after that
because then I'd just have to fight him all over.
 
 Fighting the clone battle ran between one and 10 minutes each time. Say
that averages out to four minutes each, that means I spent roughly
another hour and a half on the second battle. Like I said, not the best
gamer, but I am persistent and I do want to win. Plus, I like to play on
the "normal" difficulty because "easy" is generally not challenging
enough to make me feel accomplished, but "hard" is, well, too hard. So I
was playing on "normal" mode.
 
 By the time that clone battle was over, I was frustrated and tired. It
was late in the evening, and I just wanted to quit. Where's the save
point?
 
 There isn't one.
 
 And you have to fight Ares again, but this time without your weapons.
 
 Now I'm just pissed. After spending another 10 minutes fighting Ares,
getting tantalizingly close to winning and then getting the shit kicked
out of me, when the game asked me for the umpteenth time whether I
wanted to switch to easy mode, I said yes. Then I killed Ares in about
two swings of the sword, which was far less than gratifying after all
the work I put in, but that wasn't the point. The point was that *I was
done playing and couldn't just save my progress and stop*.
 
 Of course, after the last battle there's a save point, right before you
run up some stairs and end the game without fighting anyone. Brilliance,
guys.
 
 The point is that I value my time and, while I like gaming, I shouldn't
have to be at the mercy of the game developer as to how long I should
allocate my time to their game. I can't count how many times I wanted to
stop playing but couldn't because I'd just lose my progress. Does that
sort of mean the game developer beat me? Sure it does. On the other
hand, I'm going to shy away from any game that either employs save
points or has levels that take longer than, say, 10 minutes to play. I
need to control how my time is allocated and save points don't allow me
to do that. It turns the game from being fun into being a chore, and
that's not why I play.
 
 Game companies: It's really not that hard. Lose the save points and let
me save wherever I want. I promise I'll be more willing to buy your
games if you do.
