---
layout: post
title: "Mandylion Labs ebpLite"
date: 2005-06-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 831
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
A while ago [I was looking at password management
options](/archive/2004/02/18/password-management.aspx) and came across
the [Mandylion Labs](http://www.mandylionlabs.com) password
token/keychains. I thought they were pretty cool, but the price point on
them was a little high for what I was hoping to spend at the time.
 
 Recently, the president of the company (who left a comment on my
previous blog entry) contacted me again and we started talking about the
future of password management, what people today decide to trust (and
what they don't), and so forth, and he mentioned that, while their newer
models are light-years better than the original/older versions, he
happened to have one of the older ones he could send me to play with.
 
 ![Mandylion Labs
ebpLite](https://hyqi8g.dm2301.livefilestore.com/y2pnTnpktOc9Av4TPEP6DIlsq_sD9wqnupd3VvVaZcFJOX0NDFxBjQF5Ocv7zjGOnOojSJGgZRAmLoj6p_MclH0ZxQPkBuO_x-iXZeJLy6oA98/20050602mandylion.jpg?psid=1)Enter
the Mandylion Labs ebpLite. Very simple five-button interface (just like
the newer models), securely stores 20 passwords, has the ability to
auto-generate passwords, remind you when passwords expire... Pretty
slick, if I do say so myself.
 
 Admittedly, the five button interface takes a bit of getting used to.
Certain key combinations do certain things (navigate through menus,
enter account data, etc.) and it takes a couple of seconds running
through the quick start guide to really get it going. Once you've gotten
over that hump, though, the benefits of the thing totally take over.
Running a super-secure environment? Tell it to irretrievably destroy its
contents when a user fails to unlock it correctly. Got certain password
complexity requirements? Set up an auto-generation password schema so
next time you need a new password it will generate one for you that
meets all the requirements.
 
 Pretty crazy the amount of stuff you can fit into such a small package.
And this isn't even the latest model.
 
 [They sell a newer model over at
ThinkGeek](http://www.thinkgeek.com/gadgets/security/7573/), but the
price point is still a little steep for the average end user. I've heard
they're going to have a more consumer-oriented model at a lower price
point soon. Definitely something to look into if you're still in the
stone ages keeping your passwords written on sticky notes attached to
your monitor or floating unsecured around your PDA.
