---
layout: post
title: "City-Wide Blackout"
date: 2006-12-18 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1116
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
There have been all sorts of power issues since a windstorm that hit
last Thursday, but on Saturday a transformer caught on fire and [blacked
out the entire city where I
live](http://www.kptv.com/news/10556056/detail.html). We had gone out to
dinner Saturday night and all was well; coming home, it was like driving
into an abyss. No street lights, no traffic signals, no lights in any
home. The airport by us also had no power, which was pretty crazy
because it *always* has lights going.
 
 We drove around downtown Hillsboro to see how far the blackout went,
but we never really found the end. It was sort of like a crazy science
fiction movie where a giant EMP goes off. Power was restored for us at
5:53 the next morning.
 
 I picked up some new CDs on Saturday because I was needing a little bit
of new tune-age. I can't see buying from iTunes anymore because I can't
un-DRM it (haven't really mucked with
[myFairTunes](http://hymn-project.org/forums/viewtopic.php?t=1555), but
[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net) says he can't get it to work) and
I'm really not satisfied with 128kbps compression.
 
 ![Placebo - Sleeping With
Ghosts](https://hyqi8g.dm2301.livefilestore.com/y2pGjyvWd_pVdbXfJsYKwze2m-Gupg5FTgH9QyOz18-p50bbGwy6ms330NmPJN6AxV_G2OqQIHB8rI0gCA51i-8GdsqlwXkYG1XPpV-dMdoVfM/20061218placebo.jpg?psid=1)[**Placebo
- *Sleeping With
Ghosts***](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008AWOD/mhsvortex):
I actually bought the import version of this, and not for the *Sleeping
With Ghosts* album, but for the bonus second disc the import version
comes with containing cover songs Placebo has done. Specifically, I was
after their cover of Kate Bush's "Running Up That Hill," which is
absolutely stellar. The rest of the bonus disc is good, as is the
*Sleeping With Ghosts* album, but the killer tune for me is "Running Up
That Hill."

 ![Nelly Furtado -
Loose](https://hyqi8g.dm2303.livefilestore.com/y2pt002_XXiCT7J_NW_rWSAerduHtOllQ_azog16AiRuNspG2KLAkJh2g86VE04-bGB2g0Wd9dD75r4P8UY0k_aMlo6qKra8hKOLTi0W9ZD2FU/20061218furtado.jpg?psid=1)[**Nelly
Furtado -
*Loose***](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000FII324/mhsvortex):
The song "Promiscuous" just *would not leave my brain* so I had to get
this. The rest of the album is pretty good, too, though I feel like the
first half is stronger than the second half. The first half feels sort
of hip-hoppish, while the second half feels like it takes of on this
latin tangent that I'm just not as into. Still, it's pretty good, and I
think it'll grow on me.

 ![Real Life - Send Me An
Angel](https://hyqi8g.dm1.livefilestore.com/y2pQZCuj8xH5XxEqafT5ERmtHEDx8W7WnJLF455UvhHKKTPgOwzlQ_B_pQO9JCkONKXkAr0KxROwdEweCDFiREgnQvjjT4UgrqHgfG1D7Bq1W0/20061218reallife.jpg?psid=1)[**Real
Life - *Send Me An Angel (The Best of Real
Life)***](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000008JU2/mhsvortex) -
These guys were one-hit-wonders with the song "Send Me An Angel" and
I've only ever had a worn-out tape with it, so it was time to step up to
digital. The rest of the songs on here are pretty lame, but the two
versions of "Send Me An Angel" make it worth it (for me).
 
 Most of the rest of the weekend was spent in last-minute scrambling
about in preparation for Christmas this coming weekend. The *24*
marathon is at my house on Saturday, so the weekend is totally out of
commission for anything last-minute. I got a little bit of gaming in on
the ol' Xbox 360, but not much. I think I'll try to play a little more
tonight because I miss [my digital
buddy](http://www.360voice.com/blog.asp?tag=Paraesthesia).
