---
layout: post
title: "Xbox 360 - Online Multiplayer and Split-Screen Simultaneously"
date: 2006-06-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1011
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
When I got my Xbox 360, I also got an [Xbox
Live](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/live/) Gold account so I could play
online with folks. Jenn, too, wanted to play, so she got a Gold account
as well. Cool.

 Of course, Jenn wants to play at the same time I'm playing, which is
neat, even though we don't work cooperatively for crap. (Ironic?) What
that means is we need Xbox 360 games that support multiple people
playing online from the same console.

 Don't all of them do that? Actually, it turns out not as many as you'd
think do. On classic Xbox, [*Halo
2*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B00008J7NZ/mhsvortex)
supports two people on the same Xbox logged into Live at the same time
(actually, I think it supports up to four on the same Xbox while logged
into Live). But which games on Xbox 360?

 You'd think Gauntlet would - it supports up to four people in the game,
and it doesn't even need split-screen. Nope - you can *either* play
multiple people on the Xbox *or* you can play online, but not both at
the same time. What about
[*PGR3*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B6ML28/mhsvortex)?
Nope - same deal, you get to pick.

 Of course, this was pretty disappointing to Jenn, who bought the
account specifically to play, and thus far has really only had a chance
to get on with *Halo 2*. (Again, she wants to play *with me*, and I
don't have two Xbox 360 consoles.)

 On an up note, I found [a database that is gathering information on
which games support this sort of
thing](http://www.45six.com/xbox/360games/). I think this is going to be
a huge resource for me:
[http://www.45six.com/xbox/360games/](http://www.45six.com/xbox/360games/)

 As of this writing, I have my choice of [*Perfect Dark
Zero*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B6ML0U/mhsvortex),
[*Ghost Recon: Advanced
Warfighter*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A0EFJW/mhsvortex),
or [*The
Outfit*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000BLNFPA/mhsvortex).
(Luckily, we own *The Outfit* and like it, so we now just need to
convince our friends to pick it up.)

**UPDATE 3/31/08**: Looks like [Co-Optimus](http://www.co-optimus.com)
has started a nice listing of co-op games for several systems.

