---
layout: post
title: "Diary of a New Coffee Addict"
date: 2006-04-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 978
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net) kills me. It's always
all-or-nothing with everything he does.

 Like, every three months or so, he decides he's not drinking soda
anymore, he's just going to drink water. So he'll do this cold turkey
thing for a week or so, then slide into just having some juice or
lemonade or something every once in a while. That lasts a couple of days
until he moves to diet soda of some nature... which also only lasts a
couple of days until he skips directly to the Mountain Dew. If they had
Jolt at work, he'd probably have hit that long ago.

 That cracks me up - he can't just stick on the diet soda or maybe
something a little lighter, he goes right from water to the Mountain
Dew. If the guy was a poker player, he'd have a pair of twos and go all
in.

 The latest Stu craze is coffee. Up until about a week ago, Stu had
never had a single cup of coffee. When you offered him one or urged him
to try it, he'd politely decline. Not sure why, whether it was that he
didn't think it'd taste good, or that it didn't sound good, or something
else. He just wasn't interested.

 Somehow last week [Sara](http://sassafrassylassy.blogspot.com/) broke
him down and got him into a Starbucks. Hoo boy. Here's kind of how it
went last week:

 **Tuesday**: Went to Starbucks, had first coffee. Pretty good! Going to
have to try this again.
 **Thursday**: Went back to Starbucks after work, this time with Trav
and Jenn. Had a mocha. Fantastic!
 **Friday**: Went to Starbucks at lunch. Decided I need to try one of
everything on the menu. Started at the top with the standard "cup of
coffee." Will work through all specialty items.
 **Saturday**: Stopped in at Bed Bath and Beyond as well as Fred Meyer
to look at coffee machines. Did you know you can brew this in your own
home? Brilliance! I must have one. Found one that appealed to me, but
decided to do a little research before committing.
 **Sunday**: Went back to Bed Bath and Beyond and picked up a [nice
coffee
machine](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A1FFJK/mhsvortex).
Trekked past Starbucks for an "official" travel mug because the ones at
Bed Bath and Beyond, well, they don't quite profess my newfound love of
coffee the way it needs to be broadcast. Also stopped by Fred Meyer and
ground me up a couple different types of coffee (roughly two pounds
worth - I anticipate tearing through this like it's going out of style).
Can't wait to get this stuff home and set up my shrine to the coffee
god. I have a [tatami mat](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tatami) that
will sit perfectly in front of it, and I can face the whole thing to the
east so I can see the rising sun as my fragrant new coffee brews to
perfection. Next stop,
[self-actualization](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maslow's_hierarchy_of_needs)!

 I won't lie - I can't say I didn't egg him on just a little bit. It's
kind of fun to get swept up in Stu's waves. I mean, it did lead to
[bongos](/archive/2005/04/17/amped-up.aspx) before, so I'm curious to
see where this one will go. Sara, you've created a *monster*.
