---
layout: post
title: "Safari 2.0.4 Fails on Unicode Escape Sequences in Regular Expressions"
date: 2006-08-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1057
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
Fought with this one for quite some time today. We use a lot of
client-side validation for input fields in the products I work on. While
we repeat that validation on the server (as is the way with ASP.NET
validation), the client-side validation is important to give the
customer earlier feedback about invalid input.
 
 Our products are written to work in a multilingual capacity so the
validation expressions need to support characters above and beyond
ASCII. That's great, but it also means we have some work to do to get
the regular expressions to work the same on the client as they do on the
server. [I've blogged about this issue
before.](/archive/2005/04/25/javascript-and-unicode-character-validation.aspx)
 
 ECMAScript standards indicate you use Unicode escape sequences to put
these extended characters into regular expressions. So rather than
literally putting `é` right in the expression, you put the equivalent
Unicode escape sequence: `\u00e9`.
 
 Safari 2.0.4 doesn't seem to handle Unicode escape sequences in its
regular expression engine. It understands that code `\u00e9` is
equivalent to the literal character `é`, but if you ask in a regular
expression if they match, they don't.
 
 From what I can tell, there is no workaround. It just doesn't get
Unicode escape sequences in JavaScript regular expressions.
 
 [I've put together some tests to illustrate the point (click for test
page).](/images/pMachine/UnicodeRegexIssueTests.html) **Browsers that
handle the issue correctly will read "true" for all cases; Safari 2.0.4
fails on the Regex tests.**
