---
layout: post
title: "Installers Still Haven't Figured Out The Start Menu"
date: 2006-08-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1050
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
I just re-imaged my work machine and for the last couple of days I've
been bringing it back to life, installing the various thousands of
millions of applications that I use on a regular basis to do that thing
I do. This time around, though, I'm doing a little experiment.
 
 Before I re-imaged, I was very careful about organizing my Start menu
so I could find things. I created a group called "Programming" to keep
the various IDEs and development tools I use in, and subgroups for
various functions therein. Same thing with programs that work with
multimedia stuff (Flash, Photoshop, etc.) - I had a group in the Start
menu for that.
 
 The problem is that installers don't always let you select where to put
the icons in the Start menu. Most times, they just create their own
company-centric Start menu group, then create a product-centric group
under that, then create their *one program shortcut* inside that. That
means I end up installing the program, then manually opening up the
Start menu and rearranging things to fit my usage. You know what happens
then?
 
 I upgrade.
 
 I take the latest stupid version of whatever stupid project, I run the
upgrade installer, and the damn company-centric Start menu group comes
back. And the product-centric group inside it comes back. And the *same
single damn program shortcut comes back*. And I, once again, have to go
through the rearrangement of icons to be more sensible. This time,
though, it's a manual diff-and-merge process, trying to determine if the
old icons still work or how to replace them properly with the new
icons.
 
 You know what's worse? Nothing could be worse, right? No, there is
something.
 
 Uninstalling.
 
 Now I've got icons in my personally organized Start menu that don't
point to anything. I have to manually keep track of these things or find
a program that will run through my Start menu and remove shortcuts that
don't point to anything. *Argh!*
 
 Why haven't we figured this out yet? The Start menu's over ten years
old! Installers should let me specify where to put shortcuts *if I opt
to even create them*. If the developer feels the desire to suggest a
default location, perfect - users who don't care can make that extra
click on the "Next" button and there's no skin off their noses. But if I
want to override that, and have everything organized, I can. And maybe I
don't even want to create icons - let me uncheck the little "Create a
program group for this program" option and carry on my merry way.
 
 I mean, tell me it's not just a company's big brass balls thinking that
they need a whole program group just to themselves and that, should I
deign to buy more of their products, I will inherently want to group the
products in my Start menu *by manufacturer and not by functionality*.
 
 I don't actually think this will change, not in my lifetime, but this
is the sort of thing that irks me. As far as my experiment is
concerned... I've installed maybe 15 things thus far and my Start menu
already wraps into a second column. Unreal.
