---
layout: post
title: "Working Out Sucks"
date: 2006-02-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 955
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Yeah, the title makes me sound like a total stooge, but hear me out.
 
 Jenn got [this
book](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0375758550/mhsvortex)
several weeks back in an effort to get us to work out some and look
better by the time the wedding rolls around in October. Neither of us
really did a whole lot of exercise before this, and while the book is
primarily a weightlifting sort of workout, something is better than
nothing.
 
 The thing is, though, working out sucks. We work out Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, so I'm thinking right now about how I'm going to have to go
home after work and work out, and I'm dreading it. I can make up 1001
reasons not to work out, and even though I know I *should* work out, it
doesn't mean I *want to*.
 
 **Working out is boring.** I've never found exercise that I enjoy doing
that I can really do on a regular basis. I sort of like swimming, but I
don't have a pool and having to go to the gym isn't really something
convenient or conducive to me exercising. I sort of like biking, but the
weather around Oregon is sort of prohibitive to getting outside on a
regular basis (it's reasonably unpredictable). I sort of like skating,
but that's not really much of a workout and, again, the weather sort of
screws you. Even if I could do one of those things, doing the same thing
all the time gets old, so it would only stave off the boredom for a
short amount of time. I need variety and I need it to be *fun*.
 
 **It only wears me out.** I hear folks who work out talk about the
"second wind" they get, or the energy they somehow magically come across
when they work out. Never once in my life have I experienced any of
that. I've done my share of running (can't do much - got flat feet and,
no, orthotics do *not* help), weight lifting, biking, etc. I don't get
any extra energy. I don't "feel better." I don't get whatever chemical
rush it is that most people seem to get. All I get when I work out is
tired. That tiredness lasts through the end of the night and into the
next day sometimes. No, I'm not "overdoing it." If it's enough exercise
to feel any sort of "burn," it's already too late - I'm going to be
wasted. Effort == Tired.
 
 **I'm not patient.** I fully admit that. I'd like to actually see some
sort of results within a week or two. On no occasion, with any type of
exercise, have I ever actually "seen results." I've been at this weight
training for like eight weeks now. Can I feel the weights getting
easier? Sure. I can sort of feel that I'm a little stronger. Is there
any visible result? No. Do I "feel better?" No. The effort for result
ratio is feeling a little off, here. I'm doing my best to eat well -
more veggies, less fat, less sugar - but I've got nothing to show for
it. Seeing nothing is generally demoralizing.
 
 Maybe it's just bad attitude. That's very well possible. I can't say I
haven't tried a million things, though, and all of them seem to fail for
me. I've done the yoga thing and it was OK for a time but I got bored
with it (plus they usually throw in all this spiritual crap that I
really just don't buy into). I've tried the cardio kickboxing thing and
got more worn out than with anything else and saw absolutely zip from
it. Weights? Boring. Running? Boring (and painful - flat feet, right?) I
was doing Dance Dance Revolution for a while, and even that gets boring
after the umpteenth day of doing it. (When I say I've tried this stuff,
it's not "three days and I quit" - it's "do it for a month or more,
two-to-four times a week, and see how it goes. I'm giving it all a fair
shot.)
 
 Anyone got any ideas? I'm sick of this crap.
