---
layout: post
title: "Christmas 2006"
date: 2006-12-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1121
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Christmas this year was reasonably good, [all things
considered](/archive/2006/12/28/semper-fades-away.aspx).
 
 We opened the season up with the [*24*: Season
5](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000ICLRKC/mhsvortex) marathon
at our house on the 23rd. From 8:00a to 1:00a the next morning, Jack
Bauer fought terrorism in my living room while
[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net), Meaghan, Jenn, my dad, and I sat
entranced by the action. Watching it marathon-style really is the only
way to go.
 
 Christmas Eve being the next day, we slept in a bit (watching TV that
long is actually pretty wearing... sort of counter-intuitive, I know)
and finished the last of the package wrapping. That afternoon we headed
over to Jenn's parents' house to do some gift exchange and chat for a
while with them. Jenn brought her Nintendo DS because her mom and niece
both got them for Christmas and it was the first time we were able to
play with some of the networking abilities. It's actually a pretty slick
deal and we had a lot of fun with it.
 
 After that, we went over to Jenn's mom's cousin's house and visited
with some of her extended family. I'd been there once before, several
years ago, but while I recognized faces, I'm horrible with names and had
to be re-introduced to folks. I'm introduced as "my husband, Travis"
now, which is still weird for me to hear.
 
 Christmas Day I had expected to be at my parents' house early, but they
had things to do, so Jenn and I exchanged gifts to each other in the
morning and it ended up being a little after noon before we got to my
parents' house. We talked for a bit and I showed my parents some of the
gifts Jenn and I had gotten each other, then my grandparents showed up
and we ate dinner... at 2:00p... which I guess is what elderly folks
expect, but is still something I don't understand.
 
 We exchanged gifts with folks, Jenn and I ~~cheaping out~~ taking
advantage of the wedding this year and giving a lot of wedding photos. I
got a few very cool things that I'm enjoying on my vacation, including
[*The Unit*: Season
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000GB75CO/mhsvortex), [*Gears
of War*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000FRS9II/mhsvortex)
(and [the strategy
guide](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0744008360/mhsvortex)),
[The Beatles' *Love*
album](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000JJS8TM/mhsvortex), and
more energy drinks than I've ever seen in one place at one time.
 
 All in all, a good Christmas, but nothing screamingly outstanding or
exceptionally notable. Jenn and I have been talking about the fact that
Christmas sort of loses its magic more and more the older you get. It
becomes less about the wonder of the season and more about trying to
arrange schedules, make sure everyone has a gift, get everyone together
come-hell-or-high-water... it's not at all like it was when we were
kids, and it's not like you see in the movies. It used to be, and
neither of us are really sure where things went wrong. Maybe it's the
age difference, maybe it's the turmoil of the year catching up to us,
maybe it's something else, but it's not the way it used to be - the way
it should be. We're going to have to look at how to change that for next
year.
