---
layout: post
title: "Finishing the Wedding Registry"
date: 2006-11-06 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1095
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
[![Kate Spade 'Gramercy Park' Casual
China](https://hyqi8g.dm2304.livefilestore.com/y2pq0FMt7yoXi5CHT-Stwc0eqpBm1VpVYInnWpAVZTss94qKQaJ9mzbR_3ZtMqG5C1Zwp5mcofX8aMZDvNTWij9K078vvBemXDb3OaOSRWNKTY/20061106katespade.jpg?psid=1)](http://www1.macys.com/catalog/product/index.ognc?ID=111027&PseudoMasterProdID=111108)We
went to [Macy's](http://www.macys.com) on Saturday and bought the
remainder of the dish set we put on the wedding registry. We got a few
items for the wedding, but three dishes and a couple of bowls really
didn't equal "complete dish set," so we finished out the 12-person place
setting list we had put together (minus the platter and serving bowl).
It was a little on the spendy side (I think we came out with a total of
around $830) but we had a lot of Macy's gift cards to contribute to
that so it wasn't that much out of pocket. Thanks to all the folks who
got us dishes and Macy's gift cards - you are contributing to the "Stop
Eating on Mom's Hand-Me-Down 1970's Corelle-ware" cause.

 Actually, I like [the new
plates](http://www1.macys.com/catalog/product/index.ognc?ID=111027&PseudoMasterProdID=111108)
a *lot*. Enough that I'm almost scared to eat on them. They're microwave
and dishwasher safe, but... well, I've never had nice plates. It's a new
thing.

 While we were at Macy's, Jenn picked up a new outfit and I started
thinking maybe I need some new stuff. You know, change it up a little.
I'm not sure what I want, but while I like a casual dress look, it's not
terribly sustainable for me - about halfway through the day I end up
feeling (and looking) all wrinkled and rumpled. I do like the stuff they
sell at [the Cirque du Soleil
boutique](http://www.cirquedusoleil.com/CirqueDuSoleil/en/boutique/)
because I feel like it's reasonably stylish, different, and fits
comfortably without making me look/feel unpressed by the end of the day.
Jenn says it looks like skater punk stuff and there's only so much
skater she can handle. So I'm not sure what I'm going to do. I just know
I'm not a chain wallet guy (even though I secretly want to be) and
[Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net) is a golf hat guy (even though he
really doesn't want to be).

 Speaking of Stu, he came over on Sunday and we put in our final units
against
[*Oblivion*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000GE7O9K/mhsvortex),
completing the game with all achievements fulfilled and clocking it in
at just under 61 hours. My dad bought that game and hasn't even started
yet. I'm pretty sure he'll never get it finished. Anyway, now that we're
done with *Oblivion* we'll have to look for a new game to put in units
on.

 Saw that [*Contra* is coming to Xbox Live Arcade on
Wednesday](http://gamerscoreblog.com/team/archive/2006/11/06/538730.aspx),
so I'm pretty stoked about that. I remember playing that when I was a
kid at the neighbor's house across the street on original NES. Good
times. Looks like [there's a lot coming
out](http://gamerscoreblog.com/team/archive/2006/11/06/538734.aspx) that
I might have to check out. Not really sure how well *Missile Command*
will translate without that roller-ball controller it had in the arcade,
but I'll give it a run.

[![image](https://hyqi8g.dm2303.livefilestore.com/y2p_PR67jQMrHaRfFCJCKQ0djxN2fkKgYgG7W5TPYJS3meA7nWp36dOzqKxgvTRhR2wsCQDfIfyYTeBzIwKqdacAtmR66IWgdHEnSZtKGmMKqQ/20061106uno.jpg?psid=1)](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/u/unolivearcadexbox360/default.htm)I've
become an [Xbox Live
*Uno*](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/u/unolivearcadexbox360/default.htm)
junkie. I'm not sure why playing a card game over Xbox Live is so
addictive, but it is, and it's really the first Xbox Live game that has
me sucked in. I think the key with it is that there's not a lot of skill
involved, so regardless of who shows up to play with you, everyone's on
level ground - you don't pop into the game to get your ass kicked by the
14-year-old kid who's suspended from school and has nothing better to do
all day than practice the game and yell profanity at you while shooting
you dead. Jenn's liking *Uno*, too, and has doubled her friends list
since starting. It's a load of fun.

 *Uno* has the [Xbox Live Vision
Camera](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000GCGB3M/mhsvortex)
enabled in it so you can see who you're playing with online (if they
have the camera). Thus far I'm not sure if the camera was really that
great of an idea. Sometimes it's fun, but you can't imagine the crazy
(and sometimes gross) stuff people will do on the camera while playing.
We've seen countless people smoking pot, Jenn's seen a naked guy, a guy
I was playing against said he saw someone eating a raw heart... I'm sure
Microsoft saw this as a potential issue, and yeah, you can file
complaints against people doing that, but somehow I don't see that
stopping the issue. I guess [Penny Arcade was
right](http://www.penny-arcade.com/comic/2005/03/14).
