---
layout: post
title: "NDoc 2.0 - RIP"
date: 2006-07-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1040
tags: [net]
---
Just got wind that [Kevin Downs](http://sourceforge.net/users/kdowns/)
of the [NDoc](http://sourceforge.net/projects/ndoc/) project is removing
himself from the development of NDoc, leaving no one actively developing
NDoc. Further, that means there's no NDoc 2.0 on the way.

 That's bad news in a lot of ways. First, I feel bad for Kevin since it
sounds like he's done a lot of widely used but not-directly-appreciated
work and got a lot of abuse for not moving faster on NDoc 2.0. Second,
that means folks who currently use NDoc in a lot of extended ways - via
NAnt build scripts, in other automated utilities, etc. - are screwed for
.NET 2.0 functionality. In a particularly personal bit of bad news, that
means I've got to figure out what will happen with
[CR_Documentor](/archive/2004/11/15/cr_documentor-the-documentor-plug-in-for-dxcore.aspx)
- if .NET 2.0 isn't supported in NDoc, what do I render? (Input on that
topic is welcome...)

 I guess Microsoft has some sort of [less-feature-complete documentation
rendering engine codenamed
"Sandcastle"](http://forums.microsoft.com/MSDN/ShowPost.aspx?PostID=517576&SiteID=1&PageID=0)
they're coming out with that will generate MSDN style documentation
similar to NDoc but in a more cumbersome-sounding process. It obviously
won't have instant NAnt support, meaning there's going to be some
hacking around to get that to work.

 I feel like MS is showing up late to the party on this one. If you're
going to release a product, at least make it full-featured enough to be
competitive with similar products. I've thought about writing my own
blog engine for a while now and I wouldn't release it until it did all
the stuff standard blog packages do today; if you couldn't leave
comments, for example, it's not a full blog package.

 Of course, it will most likely become the de-facto standard with the
vacuum that NDoc will be leaving. Which is unfortunate, but c'est la
vie.
