---
layout: post
title: "Not a Thanksgiving Fan"
date: 2006-11-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1105
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I just came off a four-day weekend and I remember all over again why I'm
not a big Thanksgiving (or holiday, for that matter) fan. Yeah, that
sounds very grinchy and it's not a super popular opinion, I'm sure, but
everyone's got their thing.
 
 Thursday was Thanksgiving. Getting people together on Thanksgiving,
especially with Jenn's and my collective family, is a lot like getting
cavemen to chisel out gears from stone that can be used in a watch that
tells time with atomic precision. Schedules don't line up, things just
don't jive, and plans don't ever get made until the last minute, at
which point it's far too late to get anything of any reasonable size
accomplished.
 
 Jenn had to work on Thanksgiving, so that threw a wrench in the works.
Add to that the fact that everyone seemed to want to plan through me -
the guy that didn't have any schedule complications. It felt a lot like
three people standing in a room where two won't talk to each other, but
those two people are ordering pie in *When Harry Met Sally*. "Trav, tell
Jenn we can get together at such-and-such time if she wants unless it's
going to take her longer, at which point we can get together at this
other time." "Trav, tell your parents it'll need to be later than that
unless I can get off early, in which case I can come home and get you
unless you want to meet there, which means we might be able to get
together earlier."
 
 Add to that the fact my parents don't coordinate between themselves -
Mom calls, makes arrangements, then Dad calls, makes different
arrangements, Mom calls back, updates me based on new information she
has... I'm getting stressed out just thinking about it.
 
 Oh, and [I don't like turkey, stuffing, or most of the other
"traditional" Thanksgiving
food](/archive/2004/10/26/the-thanksgiving-debate.aspx).
 
 In the end, Thanksgiving was just Jenn and I. I made some butter
chicken, rice, and chapati bread (the bread didn't turn out all that
great, but *I tried, dammit*). Jenn sort of moped through dinner because
"it didn't feel like Thanksgiving," but there really wasn't a lot I
could do about that.
 
 Friday I was off work, so I thought I'd get a little gaming in whilst
(and at the same time) doing the laundry and running Roomba/Scooba to
clean the floor. I figured I'd get some stuff done on Jenn's day off so
we could take it easy Saturday and Sunday. Jenn came home tired from the
day so Friday night was lame; we had some Chinese food from Happy Panda
and watched [*The
Break-Up*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000HCPS94/mhsvortex)
(which does *not* end the way you think it will). Not really sure if
Jenn noticed the housework was all done. Hmmmm.
 
 Saturday my parents came over to help us put up our tree. We didn't see
them Thanksgiving, so they were nice enough to come over and help out
with one of the larger stressful events of the season.
 
 Putting up the Christmas tree is a lot like raising a barn. We have one
of those artificial trees that folds up sort of like an umbrella and
gets stored in a box in the attic. The box is fairly large and unwieldy
and isn't really something Jenn can deal with. Here's how the typical
year goes:
 
 Trav gets in the attic and man-handles the tree box out of the attic.
Trav then slides the box down the stairs because it's too large to
safely carry. Trav unpacks the tree and assembles it. Trav then realizes
he's put the parts together in the wrong order, at which time the entire
thing gets disassembled and reassembled in the correct fashion. Trav
then sets about going around to each individual branch and fanning out
the little branches to fill the tree in. When the whole nightmare has
finished, Jenn steps in to help decorate. (Jenn doesn't participate in
the tree raising for two reasons. First, Trav gets irritable and
foul-mouthed, which isn't pleasant. Second, Jenn believes Trav is being
a perfectionist in the fanning out of the branches when really he just
wants the tree to *look full*. There is ongoing heated debate about
whether he is being reasonable.)
 
 This year, Dad helped me get the tree out of the attic and down the
stairs, which was awesome and made the process way easier. The parts got
assembled in the correct order the first time, then Dad, Mom, and I
fanned out the branches. Jenn still didn't take part in the fanning,
which nearly was (again) the source of some fairly heated debate. I'm
still sort of irritated, but it's just a small stick on the fire of my
holiday irritation.
 
 All four of us decorated the tree, during which time I realized I hate
our ornaments. Independently, each one of the tree ornaments has merit.
This one is cool looking, that one has personal memory or meaning
attached to it... but they're not "several great tastes that go great
together." Jenn doesn't like my ornaments - many are Marvel super heroes
my Dad got me and are very brightly colored and tacky, flying out of the
tree or climbing the branches. I don't like Jenn's ornaments - they may
have memories attached, but they sure aren't my memories, and I can't
deal with the "70's-looking 'Christmas 1982' pastel ball with a small
child drawn on it" style. Yeah, she's going to beat me down for that,
but she knows it. We both dislike the other person's ornaments. We both
know it. Once the ornaments got combined on the tree, I stood back and
seriously wanted to cry I hated it so much.
 
 Anyway, so my parents helped out, and that made it go up a little
faster and easier, which was good. I went to get the tree skirt out...
 
 ... when I remembered that Jenn's cat destroyed it last year, so we
don't have one. Time to go to Jo-Ann to find a new one.
 
 Of course, we didn't like any of the ones they had, plus they're so
expensive - like \$50 or more for a tree skirt! Instead, we found a
pattern and some fabric we liked and came out with \$92 worth of
materials and no tree skirt. Makes perfect sense, right? We are now
working on putting that together. Let me tell you how pissed off I'm
going to be if her cat destroys this one.
 
 We got home from Jo-Ann and I got sad looking at our tree again, so I
went upstairs and found this awesome blown-glass
["Q"](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Q_%28Star_Trek%29) ornament I keep on
display. Opened up the box and started pulling it out of the package
when it *literally exploded in a cloud of glass shards*. I'd never had
it out of the box before. Six years I left it in the box and the one
year I decide to get it out, it breaks. I guess it serves me right -
there's a precedent. I had another awesome ornament I had loved since I
was a kid - an old-fashioned Santa in a glass ball that looked a lot
like a floating wizard. It was my favorite ornament *ever*. A few years
back, our tree ended up falling over and *the only ornament that broke
was that one*.
 
 We went to the [Winter Hawks](http://www.winterhawks.com) game Saturday
night and sat in the same section we used to have season tickets in,
only a few rows back from our original seats. It was the "Teddy Bear
Toss" game, where you throw a teddy bear or three out onto the ice when
the Hawks score their first goal. This game had three things running
against it. First, the game was scoreless until overtime when the Hawks
finally scored and won. A scoreless game in hockey is a boring game. I
remember now why we don't have season tickets. Second, the people behind
me would not stop extolling the virtues of Bon Jovi and Meat Loaf music.
Just shoot me. Third, the guy directly in front of me rode his chair
like a jockey - his ass went up and down, hovering just above the seat,
but *he never actually sat down*. Made it a little difficult to see.
 
 Okay, so Saturday was a bust. That leaves Sunday.
 
 Sunday I actually started on the upswing. First, I started the day off
with a Big Rig, and the caffeine contributed toward a mood improvement.
I still walked past the tree several times, which brought me down a bit,
but the Big Rig did some work to counteract that. Jenn had some errands
to run, so I set out on the town doing my own errands. I hit the comic
shop (it'd been about a month) and picked up my subscriptions. I stopped
at Michael's to see if they had any different stuff for the tree. I
checked out the Game Stop to see what new games were out and to pick up
a case for my PSP games. I went all over the place. By the time I got
back, I was feeling a little better. Not great, but better.
 
 Jenn and I played some Xbox games Sunday night and went out to [The
Curry Leaf](http://www.curryleafpdx.com) for some dinner. Dinner was
pretty tasty and the games were fun, so that brought the night up a bit.
Just in time for bed.
 
 This morning I got up around 4:45a to use the restroom and couldn't go
back to sleep after I got back in bed. I laid there until 6:00a when the
alarm went off, steaming over a fairly crappy vacation-that-wasn't, and
not really looking forward to having to work today. Thus ends the
weekend.
 
 I'm not anticipating awesomeness come Christmastime. I have a couple of
weeks off at the end of the year to try and relax, but I know the
schedule thing is going to bite us - trying to make it to everyones'
houses and see all the people that need to be seen. It really turns the
holiday from a holiday into a moral obligation. (Yeah, yeah, "it could
be worse." But that doesn't make it *better*, it just gives
*perspective*. That's a huge difference.)
