---
layout: post
title: "All Aboard for Aruba"
date: 2006-10-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1087
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Well, today's my last day of work until the 30th of this month. I've got
tomorrow and Friday off to get any last minute preparations done for the
wedding, then Saturday's the wedding and Sunday morning we're off to
[Aruba](http://www.diviaruba.com/).
 
![Aruba!](https://hyqi8g.dm2301.livefilestore.com/y2p_c231kACtfGVJgSlQPI3riCXSXfqBs_88tIjchkhNc9rty2jVlsZWjMuISYCasRVOWkIXo9lWWG2Mqkb-GhS7HvlnUNb9xbt0a_ap95Ml2w/20061011diviaruba.jpg?psid=1)
 
 A lot of people have asked if I'm nervous about the wedding. No, I'm
not. Jenn and I have been together for about six and a half years now,
so this isn't something we're jumping into blind - I know what I'm
getting into. We're pretty much already married; the paper and the
ceremony are more of a formality than anything else. Granted, it'll be
fun and I'm looking forward to the food and the vacation, but it's
nothing to be nervous about.
 
 I'm a little stressed about work, since I'm leaving right in the middle
of a pretty big part of the project. I trust that the other folks on the
team can get it done, but it's still hard not getting closure on it.
Plus, they know I'll beat them senseless with a wet noodle if it's not
done to my precise and exacting standards. Oh! There's the
obsessive-compulsive perfectionist rearing its ugly head.
 
 That's actually the part about the wedding I'm stressed about - not the
actual getting married, and not even the numerous vendors we've
coordinated (well, *Jenn* has coordinated) to get stuff done. It's all
the people who want to help. I totally appreciate that folks want to
help out, and I really do thank everyone who's offered. Jenn did a
really awesome job getting the whole thing together, though, and really
all we need is for people who returned their RSVP cards and said they'd
be there to just show up. Show up, have a great time, enjoy the food,
and share the day with us. That's it! Plus, you really don't want to put
yourself in my critical path right now. Everything is primroses and
peach trees until you tell me you're going to get something done and
then don't do it *exactly the way I need it done right now immediately.*
Problems arise, awkwardness ensues, peoples' tires get slashed, and it's
just a mess.
 
 I'm normally not like that, I promise. It's the wedding that's doing
it. You get one, and I want things to go without issue so I can just
take it easy and enjoy it without having to chase things down and make
sure everyone's doing what they need to be doing.
 
 So this is my last post for a while, until after I get back and
recuperate from the honeymoon in Aruba. It'll be my first trip outside
the US (yes, even counting Canada and Mexico) so it's a momentous
occasion on several fronts. It's also a test - the first vacation Jenn
and I have gone on where there's not something to do or see the whole
time... just relaxing on the beach. The test is to see if we're bored or
if the relaxation does us good.
 
 We'll see some of you Saturday. To the rest - see you at the end of the
month!
