---
layout: post
title: "Continuing Gaming: Alhambra, Give Me the Brain!"
date: 2006-04-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 980
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Continuing our
[foray](/archive/2006/03/24/looking-into-board-games.aspx) into [new
board games](/archive/2006/03/26/stomach-bug.aspx) (and following some
recommendations from readers/friends), we went to [the game
store](http://www.rainy-day-games.com/) on Saturday and picked up a copy
of [*Alhambra*](http://www.boardgamegeek.com/game/6249).

 The four of us ([Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net), Tif, Jenn and I)
had a pretty good time with it. The object is to buy tiles that you
place in a city. Each tile is of a different type ("tower" or "garden"
or whatever) and scoring is based on who has the most of any given tile
type ("I have the most towers, so I get X points; you have the most
gardens, so you get Y points"). The mechanics were pretty easy to learn
and after the first couple of turns folks seemed to get it pretty well.
I liked the way turns were broken down and the way you lay the tiles to
build your city, but I wasn't too thrilled with the expense of
rearranging the tiles in your city. For example, I can either remove a
tile from my city, add a tile to my city, or swap a tile in my city for
one in my reserve board (sort of a "holding area" for tiles). But I
can't take a tile from one place in my city and move it to another place

- I'd actually have to remove the tile and place it in my reserve on one
turn, then spend the next turn placing it elsewhere. I think there
should be a "move tile" option.

 Other than that, like I said, it went over pretty well and I look
forward to playing it again. We only got one round in that night.

 Tiff also picked up a couple of games, both by
[Cheapass](http://www.cheapass.com/). The first was [*Kill Doctor
Lucky*](http://www.boardgamegeek.com/game/257), which we didn't have a
chance to play, and the other was [*Give Me the
Brain!*](http://www.boardgamegeek.com/game/176), which we did play.

 *Give Me the Brain!* is a card game that takes about 15 minutes to play
through. The idea is that you're all zombies working in a fast food
joint and there's only one brain (represented by a six-sided die)
amongst you. The object is to get rid of all the cards in your hand, but
certain cards require that you have the brain in order to play, so
there's a round of bidding to see who gets the brain followed by a round
of card play where each person tries to complete "jobs" by playing
cards. Each "job" causes some sort of consequence to occur (like someone
else will have to draw a card). What makes things interesting is that
there are a lot of "perpetual cards" (with things on them like "give
this card to the person on your right" that will never actually go out
of play).

 It took a while to figure this one out because the rules are written in
a sort of confusing fashion (plus it was getting late), but once we
played a game through we figured it out and were able to play a second
pretty easily.

 It's an okay game, and I'd like to give it another shot because I don't
think it got a fair shake that late at night, but it is fairly quick and
not too deep, so if you're looking for something to while away a rainy
afternoon, this probably isn't it... but if you've got a group of
friends who maybe aren't entirely sober, this could be pretty fun.
