---
layout: post
title: "Xbox 360 Wireless Controller Stays On With Rechargeable Batteries"
date: 2006-05-11 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1001
tags: [Gaming]
---
I bought the [Xbox 360 premium
package](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000EFXG1G/mhsvortex)
that came with a wireless controller. That same day, I bought a [second
wireless
controller](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B6MLUA/mhsvortex)
so Jenn could play. The controllers come with battery packs that take
two AA batteries.
 
 The batteries last for several hours, but of course, I was in love with
the new gadget and played until the batteries ran out. That's when I saw
the [rechargeable battery
packs](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B6MLSC/mhsvortex) and
the [quick charge
kit](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000EYF88G/mhsvortex), which
I also bought.
 
 Something I noticed, though: When the AA battery packs were in, the
controllers both behaved as expected. When the rechargeable battery
packs were in, the controller that came with the Xbox 360 would turn off
fine, but the controller I bought later would stay on - one of the LEDs
around the Xbox Guide button would stay on faintly. Sometimes I could
remove the battery pack and put it back in and the light would go off,
but later it would turn right back on.
 
 That worried me - if the controller won't turn off, it's going to just
eat my batteries and I'll be constantly charging just to stay ahead.
 
 I called Microsoft support about it this morning and it turns out this
is a known issue. Some controllers just leave one of the LEDs faintly
on. They claim it won't affect your battery life and you should just
ignore the light being on - as long as the controller functions properly
otherwise, the light being on shouldn't be a worry.
 
 I don't see that documented anywhere. [I found a
forum](http://forums.xbox-scene.com/index.php?showtopic=463170) where
other people are having the issue and it sounds like it's not just me.
 
 Anyway, if it's happening to you, Microsoft says it's a known issue and
it's nothing to worry about.
