---
layout: post
title: "Bikes, Doors, Painting, and Ghost Recon"
date: 2006-08-14 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1055
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
This weekend was a nice relaxing one, which is a good thing, since we've
got our weekends pretty much booked solid between now and the wedding.
It's amazing the number of things that you really can't do in the
evening when you get home from work.
 
 Saturday Jenn and I picked up a fairly difficult puzzle from the store
and spent some time together watching movies and doing the puzzle. It
was nice to not have to run around and do things, and we enjoyed
spending some time together working on the puzzle. It's been a while
since we just sat and worked on something like that.
 
 Sunday Jenn got bored, which is pretty normal for Jenn. Jenn, bless her
heart, is a very binary sort of person. She's either hungry or full, but
never in between. She's either entertained or bored, but never in
between. Sunday was a "bored" day, so we started talking about different
things to do. We ended up going to [Bike N' Hike](http://bikenhike.com)
and [Bike Gallery](http://www.bikegallery.com) to look at different
bikes (since we don't actually own any).
 
 Bikes are damn expensive.
 
 Granted, I haven't had a bike since I was a kid, so I really had no
concept of how much bikes cost, but I was thinking maybe a couple
hundred bucks, tops. Turns out you can get a super low-end bike for
that, but if you want to ride it in any reasonable capacity, you're
probably looking at the \$300 mark. Plus helmets. Plus a bike rack for
the car so you can take the bikes out to a place to ride. I don't see us
starting this one up for less than \$750, which is far more than I
anticipated. Needless to say, while the trip was educational, it ended
in disappointment for Jenn as we did not get bikes. Perhaps later in the
year, or early next year. The wedding and the sprinkler system and the
house repainting and all that... too much drain on the budget for bikes
right now.
 
 After we got home from the bike hunt, I finally sat down to play some
[*Ghost Recon: Advanced
Warfighter*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A0EFJW/mhsvortex),
which I got for my birthday but hadn't cracked it out of the plastic
wrap yet because of the whole broken Xbox 360 debacle.
 
 *GRAW* rocks. It really does. It's just hard. Super hard. See, I'm used
to the first-person shooter like *Halo* where you just bust in with your
machine gun and start blasting away. *GRAW* requires you to peek around
the corner and scout stuff out. If you just run in, you're going to get
killed. That's not a bad thing, it's just a different way to play and it
takes a little getting used to. On the other hand, it forces you to get
more into the game and pay more attention to what's going on. You can't
barrel around the corner, you actually have to stop and plan your route
to the destination because you don't want to walk through ambush points
or anything. Totally sweet.
 
 Anyway, I played that for a couple of hours while Jenn entertained
herself putting together the flower girl basket for the wedding. Fine
and dandy.
 
 Had some dinner, watched [*V for
Vendetta*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000FS9FCQ/mhsvortex)
(decent, but somehow... lacking... maybe I just wasn't into it at the
time), and went to bed a half hour early.
 
 The house painters are here this morning, doing their thing.
Technically they're just painting the trim since I have vinyl siding. Of
course, I have to be here, since the front door needs to be painted and
I'm not just going to leave the house unlocked all day. Sooooo...
working from home.
