---
layout: post
title: "Pretty Cool Labor Day Weekend"
date: 2006-09-05 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1066
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
![Amp Big Rig (in the
center)](https://hyqi8g.dm2302.livefilestore.com/y2pYzv2AfRcKn754Xs6UIYnAfrWd5N05YbZWHt2fQ8WxB8GMDNnj3GY5ZMCRMqtEV53oJAvN85mpSc2TNBW9IG0oNiateE_8hrGDi_hDMWuBCs/20060905amp.gif?psid=1)I
had a pretty decent Labor Day weekend, but I'm tired this morning, so
I'm drinking an Amp Big Rig, possibly the largest can of caffeinated
beverage I've ever seen. Oh, *hell yeah*.
 
 Friday night not a lot happened, or at least nothing of interest that
I'm remembering right now. That's quite alright, though, as a quiet
Friday night after a long week at work is just fine by me.
 
 Saturday morning we were up bright and early and headed down to
Wilsonville for the [Hollywood Video](http://www.hollywoodvideo.com/)
warehouse sale. They opened the main office for a big previously viewed
video sale where movies were between \$2 and \$6 each. We met my parents
down there and good thing, too, because they got there far earlier than
we did and got a decent spot in line. You should have seen the line!
Unreal. And due to fire code, they could only let 100 people in at a
time, so the line was moving sloooooow. But we got eight movies of
varying cost for a total of \$38. Not bad.
 
 After that, we headed over to Fry's to see what was cool and new. I
ended up getting [*MacGyver* Season
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0006IUDXA/mhsvortex) for
\$20, which is a total steal.
 
 We then headed to the mall to burn a little time and had someone
comment on how they liked [my
shirt](http://www.thinkgeek.com/pvp/swag/77da/) and someone else comment
on how much better my car looked than theirs. Can't say the compliments
didn't boost my ego a bit. Just a tad. *I am the center of the
universe!* Okay, better now.
 
 Didn't really do much at the mall. Walked around, looked at stuff we
can't afford, etc. Had a little lunch, then headed over to pick up
Jenn's dress from the bridal shop. After that, headed home and...
watched movies. Woohoo!
 
 Sunday [Stu](http://www.stuartthompson.net) came over and we put in
some units on
[*Oblivion*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000BI3QK2/mhsvortex).
Actually got several hours in on that and finished quite a few missions.
On lunch break we went to get our tuxes measured for the wedding, so
that's an item checked off the list of things to do. We all followed the
units up with a [*Flavor of
Love*](http://www.vh1.com/shows/dyn/flavor_of_love/series.jhtml)
marathon (catching us up to current) and called it a night.
 
 Monday was the downer of the three day weekend. I always have that
dilemma on the long weekends of when to do the work that needs to be
done. If you do it at the beginning, it sets a bad tone for the rest of
the weekend. If you do it at the end, it makes you feel like you wasted
the last vacation day available to you by doing work.
 
 I [fixed the stupid trim around the front
door](/archive/2006/08/23/fed-up-with-painting.aspx) first thing. Of
course, I had to sand the existing paint down to get rid of the majority
of the brush strokes the painters left, which made the whole area dusty,
so I got out the broom... and promptly fucked up the finish on the front
door. I guess I figured the super-mega-paint they were supposed to use
would hold up to a brush off with the broom, but not so. Well, nothing
to be done about that now. You don't notice it from far away, but up
close, it's there. Bah.
 
 So, yeah, the trim got fixed. Then I went in and sanded down the tops
of two doors in the house that wouldn't shut (or shut really tight, as
the case may be). All doors work, now, but what a messy nightmare.
 
 Jenn had some stuff to do at the mall, so I tagged along and ended up
picking up [*Kameo Elements of
Power*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000B6ML0A/mhsvortex) for
like \$28, which is pretty decent for a 360 game. I tried the demo and
it was OK, and after realizing I will never finish
[*GRAW*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000A0EFJW/mhsvortex) on
hard mode, I thought it might be fun to get a new game. I have a few
that I should probably play out on the online modes (I have the stupid
Xbox Live Gold membership but somehow rarely actually get online) but
just haven't done it yet. Maybe that will be something to do as the
money gets tighter come holiday time.
 
 Anyway, went to the mall, got the game, had some lunch... during which
Jenn got something on her shirt, so we had to get her a new shirt at
Macy's. Found the cutest little G-Unit shirt for her, totally on sale,
so we got that. My little gangsta baby is hot hot hot. Then we headed to
the theater and saw [*The Wicker
Man*](/archive/2006/09/05/the-wicker-man.aspx).
 
 That was pretty much the weekend. Not a bad one, if I do say so
myself.
