---
layout: post
title: "Xbox 360 Accessorized"
date: 2007-03-26 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1169
tags: [xbox]
---
![Xbox Live Vision camera and Xbox 360 HD DVD
player](https://hyqi8g.dm1.livefilestore.com/y2ptsQUwx8Gs87JRWhp2-YqvIrnRDUUNYdBCe0DWkLtTLDAzPKLcOSlXOUSPh6tNgwQ0KJc2jEWI17KzvLwrFDvERsb_MleRyTD63IwkCSn7_Y/20070326xboxaccessories.png?psid=1)Friday
night I picked up one of the [Xbox 360 HD DVD
players](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000JHO4L0/mhsvortex),
an [Xbox Live Vision
camera](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000GCGB3M/mhsvortex),
and a copy of [*GRAW
2*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000LXIO6I/mhsvortex). I am
uber-stoked for all of these things.

 The setup was pretty simple, though I think for folks less familiar
with technology it may have been frustrating. See, I have the wireless
network adapter for the Xbox 360 and that takes up the one USB port on
the back of the unit. I'm sort of reluctant to jam a bunch of stuff into
the front ports on the thing because, well, it's ugly, and I really want
those for other things (like my DDR dance mat). The wireless adapter,
the camera, and the HD DVD player are all USB devices. Luckily, the HD
DVD player has two USB ports on the back you can use to extend the Xbox
with. So here's how it looks now:

 The HD DVD player plugs into the Xbox 360. The wireless network adapter
and the camera plug into the HD DVD player. Everything is plugged in
behind-the-scenes, so I don't have any cords hanging out in front of the
device.

 So why was that confusing? A couple of reasons, actually.

 First, the instructions for the camera tell you to plug it in "directly
to the Xbox 360." There's even a picture of it plugging into one of the
front USB ports on the Xbox. No, thank you. Even that wouldn't have been
as confusing except for...

 Second, there's some installation overhead to getting these things up
and running and it doesn't all just magically come up. Before you can
hook up the HD DVD player, you have to put this DVD into the Xbox 360
that presumedly has some drivers it needs to install. Once it's got that
installed, you can plug in the HD DVD player. That said, it won't
actually recognize that the player is there until you turn the Xbox off
and back on again. Is it plugged into the wrong port? Do I need to plug
it into the front like in the instructions? No, but that isn't
immediately clear.

 Once you've "rebooted," the HD DVD player comes up, the network adapter
comes up, and all is well... except it, for some reason, still hasn't
recognized the Xbox Live Vision camera. For that, you need to reboot
*again*. On the second reboot, everything should be up and running. When
it gets there, it's really sweet, but getting there is the issue. (Note
I did try hooking the camera up to the Xbox directly but it didn't
matter - it still took two reboots to get it going. Yes, that does mean
I rebooted four - or more - times as I experimented with the setup, but
the magic number does seem to be two.)

 Now, I've only had the thing a couple of days, but here's something I
ran into: I decided to move the camera to a better location and zip-tie
up some of the cables for the HD DVD player so they were a little
cleaner and more managed. To do that, I had to unplug the HD DVD player
and the camera, do the clean-up, move the camera, and plug it all back
in. After I was done, I fired up the Xbox and it took another two-reboot
cycle to get the HD DVD and camera recognized again. I'm wondering if
there's some sort of memory the console has that recognizes which ports
things were plugged into and gets confused if you move things or
disconnect the power.

 Like I said, though, once you get it all running, it's cool. Some of
the stuff I didn't know (because it's either not terribly well
advertised or I just haven't seen it):

 You can take a picture using the camera and use that as your "personal"
picture - the one that only friends see. That said, I don't seem to be
able to find it anywhere online, even if I go to my profile on the Xbox
web site, so it must just be a Live feature. Regardless, it's pretty
cool. Even my dad (who also picked up a camera) has one, and went to a
lot of work to make it.

 When you have the camera plugged in, the Xbox 360 dashboard has a sort
of "watery reflection" playing in a light overlay of whatever the camera
is seeing. You don't really notice it at first, then you're scrolling
through a menu going, "Hey, what is that... holy crap, I'm on the
screen!" Once you notice it, it's pretty cool. It ripples based on how
much movement the camera detects, too.

 The HD DVD player makes it so the eject button on the Xbox 360
dashboard is split in half - the top half controls the Xbox console
drive (allowing you to select, for example, "Play Game" or "Open Tray")
and the bottom half controls the HD DVD player ("Play HD DVD Movie").
This is actually a great way to tell if the Xbox has "recognized" the HD
DVD player or not (so you know whether you need to reboot).

 All in all, I'm really digging it. It came with [*King
Kong*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000ICM5VW/mhsvortex) in
HD, which isn't my favorite movie by any means but is a decent
demonstration of how much clearer movies are in HD and really makes you
never want to buy another standard DVD. It also has some of the little
HD features you can expect like "picture-in-picture" storyboards and
behind-the-scenes interviews, which is cool because that way you don't
have to leave the movie to see what they're talking about.

 Anyway, it's awesome, and now I have a renewed interest not only in
continuing my Media Center integration effort, but also updating some
select pictures to HD. I'm totally ordering
[*Serenity*](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000FA57N0/mhsvortex).
