---
layout: post
title: "MIX07 - Labs and Day 2 Keynotes"
date: 2007-05-01 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1196
tags: [conferences,aspnet,net]
---
I've run late all day long today for some unknown reason so I ended up
coming in on the tail end of lunch and missing my last session because
it was overbooked. Instead, I spent some time with the hands-on labs and
got some experience working with
[Silverlight](http://www.silverlight.net).

 The labs they have are good and really do illustrate the concepts
behind working with Silverlight. I ran into a couple of snags because
it's all running in Visual Studio "Orcas" so some of the debugging
experience was a little flaky, but generally it's a pretty decent
platform. Writing the XAML is easy as it is, but working a product like
[Expression
Blend](http://www.microsoft.com/Expression/products/overview.aspx?key=blend)
into the mix makes it super-simple.

 I believe they're going to put these labs up on the web for folks to
download and run through. I recommend doing the one where you build a
Silverlight clock application and the one where you build a Silverlight
image viewer.

 Oh, and for some decent insight into Silverlight, [check out Barak's
blog](http://blogs.msdn.com/bardak/) - he's the PM for Silverlight and I
have a feeling there's going to be good stuff showing up there.

 The afternoon keynote started out with Robbie Bach, President of the
Microsoft Entertainment and Devices Division. So, basically, he's over
Xbox, Zune, Media Center, and that sort of thing.

 The talk focused a lot on the marketing aspect of creating a good media
experience. It felt a little like the same "how to get eyeballs on your
product" sort of talk, and I know there's no free lunch - someone's got
to pay for things, and advertising is huge revenue because you've got to
sell product, but I felt sort of... well, dirty. I mean, I find things
like in-game advertising annoying, but that was one of the big key
things shown as a great way to go moving forward.

 The overall notion is that a media experience should be personal
(relevant to the user directly); interactive (let the user engage
themselves in the experience); and social (let the user interact not
only with the content but also with other users). To do that, new
marketing efforts need to excite (make people excited to interact with
it); attract (invite the user to gravitate toward the content); and
engage (have a two-way interaction with the user).

 Following Bach, Gayle Troberman, General Manger World Wide Branded
Entertainment at Microsoft, came out and led a discussion with some
marketing folks - Andrew Rashbass (Publisher and Managing Director, The
Economist), Jonathan Hsia (Associate Marketing Director, Starcom
MediaVest Group), Carol Kruse (Group Director, Interactive Marketing,
Coca-Cola), and Winston Binch (Executive Integrated Producer, Crispin
Porter and Bogusky).

 By that time, I'd heard pretty much enough about how to interactively
engage people to sell products in new ways in a digital fashion. I get
it, it's just not my bag.

 Back to the lab.
