---
layout: post
title: "Guitar Hero 3"
date: 2007-11-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1289
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
I picked up my copy of *[Guitar Hero
3](http://www.redoctane.com/guitarhero3xbox360bundle.html)* at Costco
about a week ago.  It sort of snuck up on me and I didn't actually
realize it was coming out this soon, so it was a pretty big surprise to
see it.  Regardless, we knew we wanted it, so we grabbed it.

If you haven't played a Guitar Hero game, it's time to climb out of the
hole you've been living in.  It's good times.  The thing I really liked
about *[Guitar Hero
2](http://www.redoctane.com/guitarhero2x-bundlegigbag.html)* was how
playing the songs really made me feel cool.  I'm not super good at it -
I can only really play acceptably on the "normal" difficulty - but it's
just inherently fun.  Not only that, but I really like most of the songs
so playing them was cool.  With *Guitar Hero 3*, I expected "more" and
"better."

It's good, but... I dunno.  There's just *something* missing.  I think
that the combination of a few of the changes sort of put me off.

First, and foremost, the songs.  I've played through co-op career mode
on "Easy" and I'm almost through solo career mode on "Medium" and I
think I really only like maybe 25% of the songs.  I'm a mainstream rock
fan.  I like, for example, the Poison and Guns n' Roses songs they
included.  Some of the more popular classics are cool, too, like "Paint
It Black" by The Rolling Stones.  I'm all over that stuff.  But that's
sort of the minority of the songs.  The rest?  Eh.  I more... "tolerate
them" than I do "like them."  I mean, "The Seeker" by The Who?  Mildly
acceptable.  "Kool Thing" by Sonic Youth (or *anything* by Sonic
Youth)?  Lame.  The redeeming tune is "Cult of Personality" by Living
Colour.  I've wanted that song since I first played *Guitar Hero*.  But,
generally speaking, mediocre fair song-wise.  (Here's the [complete song
list on
Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_songs_in_Guitar_Hero_III:_Legends_of_Rock).)

The other thing is the difficulty level. In *GH2*, "Easy" was easy and
"Normal" was slightly more difficult, but not so bad that you couldn't
just pick up and play and have fun.  "Hard" was actually hard and
"Expert" was for the hardcore folks only.  In *GH3*, everything is about
50% harder.  "Easy" isn't nearly as easy as the *GH2* "Easy," and
"Normal" isn't just pick-it-up-and-rock - it looks like it'll take some
practice (I'm only halfway through).  "Hard" will definitely require
practice and I won't even look at the "Expert" level.  The difficulty in
*GH2* reflected the idea that casual gamers could pop in and play
something a little more than "Easy" and still have fun.  In *GH3*...
you're either dedicated or you're stuck on "Easy."

I'm not as concerned as other folks that some focus has moved to
competition.  The co-op career is fun and I feel like it compensates for
the competition aspect that's been added.  They needed a little
something new and the competition aspect is an interesting direction.
Jury's still out on whether I think they should go further in that
direction, but it's *not bad*.  There are some interesting glitches with
the co-op achievements where if you're playing co-op career mode both
partners will get the co-op note streak achievements but only the person
logged in as "player 1" will get the career completion achievements.
Hopefully that will be fixed in a patch.

In all... I generally like *GH3*, but I think it could generally have
been better.  Even just choosing better songs would have made it better
for me.  I'm having fun with it, and I'll keep playing it, but I hope
that *GH4*, if they come out with it, has better songs.  I did order
*[Rock Band](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock_band_game)* and I'm
looking forward to it.  I think the new instruments (and a mildly
better, albeit slightly overlapping, song list) will be a nice change.
