---
layout: post
title: "Halloween 2007"
date: 2007-10-31 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1287
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
![Jenn as Josephine and Trav as
Napoleon.](https://hyqi8g.dm2303.livefilestore.com/y2pe_jfqfgmT3DVCC27KBAV22FBt_OasGfF7kmJONFgVYb-xVdR3qgUgrXwJ2bnOfnKqLgtOJA4Qfx3a2S0rTNj_iHzK62jb-SGDMqp04x04xQ/20071031halloween.jpg?psid=1)Halloween
- always a good time.  This year Jenn and I went as Napoleon and
Josephine.  The photo here is us on Saturday just before heading over to
[Jason and Tracy's](http://www.meyercentral.com/) house for a party.

As usual, we both made our costumes.  Jenn made the dress and cape/robe
and I made everything you see but the hat and shoes.  It was quite the
effort - more than I anticipated - and there were a couple of
all-nighters pulled to get things done. 

Then, of course, I had to go and stain my pants in the chocolate
fountain at the party, but that's another story.

The effort paid off - I got the "Honorable Mention" category at the
company costume contest.  And had a hell of a time at that party.

When I told people I was going to be Napoleon, the conversation was
almost always the same.  In fact, here's a [near] verbatim transcript of
how every single one of them went:

> **Person:** What are you going to be this year?
>  **Travis:** Napoleon.
>  **Person:** Dynamite?
>  **Travis:** No, *moron*, Bonaparte.  It's unfortunate for you that a
> small-scale cultural icon has overtaken an entire period in history.
>  **Person:** Aren't you a little tall to be Napoleon?
>  **Travis:** Because I haven't heard that one before.  Thanks for
> bringing that to my attention, though, because I'd never have thought
> of it! Guess I'll have to walk around on my knees or something because
> you can't get past my height but the first Napoleon you thought of was
> Dynamite.
>  **Person:** ...

The level of dripping acid in the conversation was, of course, adjusted
based on present company, but you get the idea.

Not sure what we'll be next year, but we've got some ideas.  It was nice
to have costumes that "went together."  Usually we just do our own
thing.  We'll probably try for similarly-themed costumes again next
year.

