---
layout: post
title: "All Hopped Up"
date: 2007-02-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1148
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
This is probably going to read almost
[stream-of-consciousness](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stream_of_consciousness)
style because [I'm all hopped up on Mountain
Dew](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B000J4P9P8/mhsvortex).
 
 Saturday my parents came over to visit [the new
kitty](/archive/2007/02/04/introducing-jack.aspx). I have awesome
parents. They brought over some very cool Da Vinci Code jigsaw puzzles,
a nice picture for us to hang in the house, and [a Twinkies bake
set](http://www.bedbathandbeyond.com/product.asp?order_num=-1&SKU=13830282)
for Valentine's Day. (Twinkies were a staple in high school and I still
love me a good Twinkie. Zingers are my all time favorite snack cake. In
fact, I found them in the vending machine this morning at work and
didn't hesitate a second in cramming them into my mouth. They're that
good.) Jenn and I took them to their first Indian restaurant experience
at [The Curry Leaf](http://www.curryleafpdx.com) and they liked that.
Good times.
 
 Sunday Jenn worked and I had to take little Jack to the vet because
he's been sneezing a lot in the last few days and we thought he had a
cold. Turns out some kitties have a virus in them that makes them sneeze
and have a runny nose when they are stressed out. There's not much you
can do for them since they have to fight it off themselves, but the vet
gave me this nasty amino acid paste that is supposed to slow down the
virus enough for the cat's immune system to fight it off. We have to
give it to him and our other cat twice a day.
 
 Of course, giving them this paste is easier said than done. Some cats
like it, some don't. You can fool Xev into eating it by putting it on a
couple of cat treats. Jack will do everything he can not to eat it, so
we have to put it in a syringe and jam it down his little throat.
 
 Jack has also started a new trick of taking a flying leap at you and
climbing you like a tree. He's a wild little cat and we're going to have
to break him of that because his little claws hurt. I spent a good
portion of Sunday walking around with him clinging to my leg like a
[velcro monkey](http://www.puppetjungle.com/hangingcreatures.htm). It
sounds funny, but it wasn't as cool as you think.
 
 I refrained from doing too much Xbox playing this weekend because I'm
all set up for [the Xbox Rewards challenge](http://www.xbox.com/rewards)
starting today and I didn't want to get a bunch of Gamerpoints that
could be credited toward my run in the challenge. Of course, at the time
I'm writing this, the contest hasn't started yet so I'm wondering when
they're going to get on the stick over there and roll out the signup
form. *Let's go already.*
 
 This coming weekend is going to rock. Jenn and my mom are headed to my
cousin's wedding shower and will be there overnight, so my dad and I are
going to play Xbox and watch movies and hang out all day. (Don't you
wish your dad was as cool as my dad?) I'm not sure what all we're going
to play, but I'm sure there will be some Halo in there because dad is a
*Halo addict*. (Of course, it'd be nice if he'd play the single-player
game more often to perfect his skills... *hint-hint, Dad*...)
 
 I'm wearing my [Mooby's Funployee
shirt](http://www.jayandsilentbob.com/morefush.html) today, complete
with [Mooby's nametag](http://www.jayandsilentbob.com/mofunafrcl2.html).
I found a label maker around work that laser prints on clear labels so I
was able to put my name on the nametag and have it look *perfect*. Hey,
it's the small things.
