---
layout: post
title: "The Bourne Ultimatum"
date: 2007-08-13 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1253
tags: [media,movies]
---
I really need to get past the fact that the Bourne movies have no
relation whatsoever to the books with the exception of general character
naming.  Ever since the first movie, they've gone on such a diverging
path as to make the two almost incomparable.

That said, if you let all that go, *[The Bourne
Ultimatum](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0440963/)* is a pretty cool
movie.

I re-watched the first two this week in preparation.  In *[The Bourne
Identity](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0258463/)*, we find that Jason
Bourne ([Matt Damon](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000354/)) is a black
ops assassin trained by the government during an operation called
"Treadstone."  In [*The Bourne
Supremacy*](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0372183/), some people in on the
"Treadstone" operation try to frame Bourne for some evil doings in an
attempt to use Bourne's reputation as a cover-up.  Each of those movies
ends with Bourne basically going off into the sunset to try and live his
life in peace, but realizing that the government is still after him so
he'll always be on the run.

*The Bourne Ultimatum* is Bourne trying to find out more about his past
and stumbling upon a larger operation - apparently "Treadstone" was just
the beginning.

The movie was an action-fest, and none of us left the theater
disappointed.  Great stunts, lots of fun, and very entertaining.  I
didn't feel like my entertainment dollar was wasted.

That said, you really couldn't analyze it too closely because the plot
starts looking like Swiss cheese with all the holes.  Normally I can let
a lot of that stuff go by virtue of the fact it's an action movie and
generally implausible anyway, so a couple of details this way or that
way don't matter.  There were two details that bugged me about *The
Bourne Supremacy* that I'm having trouble getting past.

First, by the end of the second movie we see that Bourne has kind of
made peace with things and has accepted that he'll only know just so
much about his past.  He goes off to live happily ever after.  At the
beginning of the third movie, he's back in full gunslinging action,
apparently on a search for... his past again?  I thought he was over
that.  Eh, fine, they needed something for him to get worked up over.

Second, in the end of the first movie when Bourne confronts his old CIA
handler, Conklin ([Chris Cooper](http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0177933/) -
a man who always plays the best corrupt government agents), about his
identity, Conklin does a little disclosure monologue saying how Bourne
was supposed to kill some guy, yadda yadda yadda, and that Bourne picked
the place it would happen, picked the time it would happen, and picked
his cover for the hit - Bourne picked the name "Jason Bourne."  In
*Ultimatum*, they contradict that statement by saying Bourne was given
that name during training.  Huh?  I hope I'm just remembering the end of
*Identity* wrong, but I *just* watched it and I swear that's what
happened.  So that stuck in my craw a bit, but I guess I can let that
go, too.

Anyway, *The Bourne Ultimatum* was pretty cool.  I liked it better than
*The Bourne Supremacy*, and there was a lot less of that shaky-cam crap
that *The Bourne Supremacy* overused.  Check it out, you'll like it.

