---
layout: post
title: "Solution To The Guitar Hero Loose Whammy Bar Problem"
date: 2007-06-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1222
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
![O-rings around the base of the whammy
bar](https://hyqi8g.dm2303.livefilestore.com/y2pdEPfprHTQi3RkQOmsck-seDW9tOPQqiZaWVngUL9OOrXZmwyQU5q6L1UVc3UE1ug_GngJSiO2vuBTFLJICSYuYaMPD9s2ckHg1aMt4CtEgg/20070622whammyfix.jpg?psid=1)**Problem:**
You have a *Guitar Hero II* X-Plorer controller for Xbox 360 and the
whammy bar is loose. You want the whammy bar to tighten up without
having to take apart your guitar and you don't want to go through the
exchange process with RedOctane.

**Solution:** Get four (4) size AS568A-008 (3/16" inside diameter)
neoprene o-rings. Slowly push each one over the end of the whammy bar
(the neoprene will stretch, but take your time with it because you don't
want to break the ring) and down to the base of the whammy bar as tight
as you can. Four rings will cover the entire base of the whammy bar up
until the bend. When they're on, it'll look like the picture.

The o-rings will generate just enough friction to make it so the whammy
bar moves easily but will stay in place when you let go, leaving it in
easy grasp for the next time you need it. Putting multiple rings on will
keep the bottom one from slipping away from the guitar body and losing
friction. Getting them to the bend in the whammy bar makes it just that
much more secure because it'll take more effort for the rings to round
the bend and come loose.

**Too Much Detail:** I tried several ring sizes and materials to get
here. Size 8 is just big enough to barely go over the whammy bar end and
still fit snugly around the bar proper. Neoprene is the right material
because other materials either don't stretch quite enough or don't offer
enough friction. For example, I bought some rings from the Home Depot
plumbing section that had an "oily" or "slick" feel to them because they
were probably Buna-N and treated for resistance to oils and liquids. (I
blogged about how I was [learning too much about
o-rings](http://paraesthesia.com/archive/2007/06/18/learning-too-much-about-o-rings.aspx).)

**Where To Buy:** I bought my o-rings at
[McMaster-Carr](http://www.mcmaster.com/). In the search box on their
site, put "AS568A" and it'll get you to the o-ring page. From there,
select the "AS568A Dash Number" as "8" to get the ring size set.
Finally, select "Neoprene" as the material. As of this writing, they
only carry one product that matches those criteria. It's a bag of 100
o-rings that costs \$2.48 (no, you can't get a smaller pack or buy
individual rings - they're an industrial supply store, not a consumer
goods shop). Shipping was about \$5 via UPS ground for me.

We tried this out last night in a feverish game of *GH2* and it works
pretty well. The rings never had to be pushed down or adjusted, it just
worked. A sub-\$10 solution and not having to actually open up the
guitar? Can't ask for much more than that.

**UPDATE:** While I'm happy to help folks out, I'm not in the o-ring
business.Â  If you want some o-rings, head over to
[McMaster-Carr](http://www.mcmaster.com/) and pick some up.

