---
layout: post
title: "Dog Day Evening"
date: 2007-01-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1131
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Saturday found Jenn and me going to
[Laserport](http://www.laserportofbeaverton.com) with Jason, Tracy, and
Adam for a couple of rounds of laser tag. (My legs are killing me today,
indicating that I clearly do not get enough exercise - a fact I'm well
aware of but somehow never really do anything about.) Laser tag is hella
fun and our team put the good ol' smack down on anyone we faced.

 Only thing beyond that notable for Saturday: We got stuck behind this
fairly inconsiderate driver who turned right in front of us when they
had the red light and a sign posted for them saying "no turn on red."
This is the first time I've actually been [prompted to file a
complaint](http://www.platewire.com/ViewRate.aspx?rid=21481) against
someone on [Platewire](http://www.platewire.com/).

 Sunday was relaxing pretty much up until the very end. Jenn and I
cleaned up some clutter that needed to be dealt with, we played some
video games, and we ran a few errands. No big deal. We were enjoying the
time until about 8:30p, when we were about to start watching a movie and
heard this terribly loud barking coming from behind the house.

 Now, we've had to talk to the neighbors before about their barking dog,
but they really reined it in and it hasn't been a problem for a long
time. This time, though, was far worse than any of the other times - it
was extra loud and the dog was whining, crying, and barking all at the
same time.

 Irritated, I opened up my back curtains to see what was going on and
*there was a beagle puppy in my back yard*. No collar, no license, just
running around barking and whining.

 Jenn and I went outside to see how it got in. The gate into the yard
was closed, there were no holes under the fence, and all the boards were
in place - it didn't get through the fence. We really don't know how it
got there, but we're figuring someone dropped it into our yard.
Fantastic.

 Meanwhile, my cat's tail is as big around as a soda can. She's freaked
out, alternating between stalking the dog through the window and hiding
under the couch. To alleviate a little of that, we took the dog around
the house and into the garage.

 Here's the problem: It's late and animal control is closed to the
public. Unless it's attacking or it's got a license, you're stuck until
morning. What do you do?

 You call the sheriff's office and they send an officer out to pick it
up, that's what.

 Of course, if either Jenn or I went inside, the dog would whine and
bark; if we were both outside with it, it was fine (albeit a little
hyperactive). So we were stuck sitting in the garage with this dog that
someone dropped off in the yard, waiting for the police to come get it.
We fed it some chicken (it was super hungry) and gave it some water
while we waited. It took about an hour and a half before the officer
showed up to get it. Let me tell you, there was some serious magazine
reading going on.

 So we're dog-free once again this morning, which is fine by me. I hope
the dog finds a good home (I'm sure he will - he was cute), but mine is
not that home.
