---
layout: post
title: "Birthday In The Lost Room"
date: 2007-07-22 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1236
tags: [personal,tv]
---
We celebrated my 31st birthday this weekend.

On Saturday, a small group of folks got together with me and we went to
[Ultrazone](http://www.ultrazoneportland.com/) to play laser tag.  It
was quite a bit of fun, and a slightly different setup than other places
I've played laser tag, so it was a neat change.  I'll definitely have to
go back there again.  After that, about half the folks came back and we
had a barbecue at my place.  Jenn got me a tasty mint chocolate chip ice
cream cake from [Cold
Stone](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cold_Stone_Creamery).  I don't think
I'd ever had an ice cream cake before, and it was great.

Sunday my parents came over and took us out for lunch at [Buffalo Wild
Wings](http://www.buffalowildwings.com) and then to see *[Live Free or
Die Hard](http://www.livefreeordiehard.com/)*.  Lunch was great, and the
movie was actually a lot better than I expected.

The idea behind *Live Free or Die Hard* is, basically, that a hacker is
trying to take down the entire country by shutting down anything run by
computers.  Basically.  Now, I won't lie and tell you that you can go in
and not have to work to suspend your disbelief - you're going to have to
take some stuff on faith.  At times, you will find yourself laughing at
how ridiculous some of the situations are.  That said, it's a lot of
fun, and I never once felt like I needed to look at my watch and see how
much longer it was.  It's a fluff piece, a great thrill ride, and if you
go in understanding that, you'll have a blast just like I did.  Plus,
they give some little rewards to the *Die Hard* fans out there, what
with the daughter, Lucy, showing up.  (Remember her on the first
movie?)  Anyway, see it and have fun.

My dad also made me a really cool *Lost Room* gift box.  If you haven't
seen *[The Lost
Room](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000MMMTD2?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000MMMTD2)*
yet, definitely do - it was fantastic.  Anyway, he went to the trouble
of cutting out all of this perfectly fitting foam to package up a copy
of the DVD, prop replicas of the bus ticket and the pen, and an actual
room key he got from a collector on eBay (so, no, it's not a prop
replica, nitpickers; it's from a real hotel room, not the Lost Room). 
It's super cool - check it out:

![Lost Room gift box: DVD, bus ticket, pen, and
key](https://hyqi8g.dm2304.livefilestore.com/y2pQb4PUO4ZNOKOAb9ZEUGh7jkJrnxaj8yFkvB0z7au9eARqxP3ygruZTl-PX51Ys46DckuvqBmZofvLgwhtInHpn5oa82cvcQqv0jGzVIb6Pk/20070722lostroombox.jpg?psid=1)

I'm stoked - it was awfully thoughtful and a lot of effort went into
it.  Very cool.

So I'm 31 now, and... well, it's not much different from 30.  A bit more
experience under my belt (along with, probably, a few more pounds).  A
lot of life change since 30.  I sense more change on the horizon, but I
guess as a friend once told me, "life is change."  We'll see what the
future holds.

