---
layout: post
title: "Five Things You Probably Didn't Know About Me"
date: 2007-02-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1143
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I was
[tagged](http://itmanager.blogs.com/notes/2007/02/five_things_you.html)
by [Scoble](http://itmanager.blogs.com), so here's my five things:

 **I was the valedictorian in high school.** I've always been
achievement-oriented, even before gamerpoints were invented, and school
was no exception. While I let some of that perfectionism go in college,
I was very academically competitive in high school. I can't say it
wasn't rewarding - it got me a free ride through college.

 **I never wanted to be a programmer.** This was on my "about" page for
a while, so you might or might not know this. I originally wanted to be
a 3D graphics modeler, not a programmer. Through some unfortunate
misunderstandings on the part of guidance counsellors, I ended up
getting a Computer Science degree. I've grown to like it since then,
finding the art in problem solving. Plus, it pays the bills.

 **I've driven the DeLorean from *Back to the Future*.** When I was
young I went to Universal Studios with my family and one of the special
effects demonstrations had the DeLorean from *Back to the Future* in it,
showing how they made the effect of the car flying through the air. It
was actually the one they used in filming, too. I got picked from the
crowd to sit in the driver's seat and "drive" the car while they
green-screened in the flying effects. The flux capacitor was going
behind me and all the gauges were running in the car, just like in the
movie. It sounds dumb but I remember it like it was yesterday and still
think it's one of the coolest things I've ever done. I even have a small
scale model of the DeLorean on my desk at work.

 **I won several spelling bees in grade school.** I was huge into the
spelling bee thing back in grade school, and did pretty well at it. Not
good enough to make it to nationals or anything, but pretty darn good. I
have a box of trophies in my attic to prove it. I even gave the spelling
test to the class in fourth grade rather than having to take it myself.

 **I can't stand newspaper or dryer sheets.** Like, near phobia-level. I
don't like how newspaper leaves newsprint on your hands or the film that
dryer sheets leave on your fingers when you touch them. When I lived
alone, I never used dryer sheets; now that I'm with Jenn, if I find a
dryer sheet stuck inside one of my shirts I make her pick it out. Thank
goodness the stupid junk-mail paper that gets delivered to my house
monthly comes in a plastic bag so I don't have to touch it when dumping
it in the recycle bin. I know this is going to prompt people to leave
newspapers and dryer sheets all over wherever I go because people will
think it's funny and not actually take me seriously, but I really,
truly, can't deal with it.

 There are probably actually like 100 things I could put on this list
but most are either dumb or things you probably don't want to know, so
we'll skip that. Instead, I'll tag some folks I'd like to hear from:
[Aaron](http://www.splatteredbits.com/tp/),
[John](http://www.johnbatdorf.net/blog/),
[Steve](http://steves-rant.blogspot.com/index.html),
[Jason](http://meyercentral.com/), and
[Wayne](http://weblogs.asp.net/wallen/default.aspx).
