---
layout: post
title: "MIX07 - The PURE Party and the Morning After"
date: 2007-05-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1197
tags: [conferences]
---
Last night was the big mix-and-mingle party at [the PURE nightclub in
Caesar's Palace](http://www.purethenightclub.com/).

 I got there around 6:30p, a little after it started, and, after going
through a TSA-style checkpoint to get in (I was actually relieved we
didn't have to take our shoes off), I got to start actually meeting some
folks.

 PURE itself is a pretty nice place inside with lots of little places to
sit and gather and talk. Of course, that makes it a problem to find
anyone specific you might be looking for because they could be hidden
away in any number of little cubby holes. Good food, great drinks,
decent music.

 At one point [The Pussycat Dolls came out and
performed](http://www.pcdlounge.com/). It wasn't the *actual* Pussycat
Dolls (like, the ones that tour and put out albums) but the performance
was the same and it was a lot of fun.

 I spent most of the time hanging out with [Joe
Pruitt](http://devcentral.f5.com/weblogs/joe/), [Jon
Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/), [Phil
Haack](http://haacked.com/), and [Miguel de
Icaza](http://tirania.org/blog/).
[Hanselman](http://www.computerzen.com) made the rounds, and toward the
end of the night on the way out the door we bumped into [Clemens
Vasters](http://staff.newtelligence.net/clemensv/) and [Michele
Bustamante](http://www.dasblonde.net/). I tried to find
[Atwood](http://www.codinghorror.com), but never seemed to cross paths
with him even though he was there. I think I crossed paths with [Anders
Hejlsberg](http://channel9.msdn.com/ShowPost.aspx?PostID=10276) at one
point but wasn't sure and he seemed to be on a mission headed somewhere
so I didn't get a chance to say hi.

 Around 9:45p they opened the club up to the general public, and while I
planned on staying, the way they did it was by locking different
sections down so if you left the section you couldn't get back in, and
drinks started costing upwards of $10 for a $5 drink. Thanks, but no
thanks. Hanselman left, I left, and several other folks left (though I
got a [Twitter](http://www.twitter.com) from Haack at 2:30a saying he
was just then leaving).

 All in all, a great party. I know where my conference registration fee
went.

 While that was good, the following several hours weren't as good. The
Venetian is under some level of construction, so they shut off the water
to the rooms at midnight and scheduled the water to be back on at 4:00a.
They left us bottled water to drink, but that didn't stop me from having
to get dressed at 3:00a, go down 20 floors, and cross the lobby just to
go to the bathroom.

 Oh, and water didn't get restored until about 7:30a. Hot water showed
up closer to 8:30a, which means I missed breakfast and most of my first
morning session. Lame.

 Anyway, I'm in a Silverlight development session now. I like what I
see. Sounds like there are a lot of folks in a "programmable web"
session, but since this is a two-part session, I didn't want to miss the
first part. I'll have to watch the video of the programmable web
session.
