---
layout: post
title: "Snowed In"
date: 2007-01-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1128
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Oh, what a week it's been.

 Saturday Jenn and I went with my friend Torin to check out [*Night at
the Museum*](http://us.imdb.com/title/tt0477347/). It was actually
pretty darn good in a "cute" sort of way. I don't know that I'll be
buying it on DVD, but I didn't walk out feeling like I was cheated out
of my money, either.

 Sunday and Monday were a blur. Monday was a federal holiday, so we
didn't have to work, but Jenn had plans to hang out with her family, so
I was left alone with the cat to play video games and watch movies. I've
been watching [*The Pretender* Season
1](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0006UEVTK/mhsvortex) and
loving it. (Just ordered [Season
2](http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/B0009X76ZA/mhsvortex) so I can
keep going. I can't believe I didn't see this when it was on TV.)

 Tuesday and Wednesday some serious cold weather hit the Portland area
and made the roads really icy, so Jenn called in sick and I worked from
home. [You can see some of the footage of people who decided to drive in
it.](http://www.kgw.com/sharedcontent/VideoPlayer/videoPlayer.php?vidId=114046&catId=437)
Not good. My dad had some trouble sliding around, too, and is going to
have to make a visit to the local body shop to get his car fixed up.

 I don't ever really feel productive when I'm home, though, because
frankly there are so many more interesting things to do than work. But
you gotta do what you gotta do, and I ended up on the couch with a TV
tray and my laptop. Not terribly ergonomic by any means.

 I'd have blogged all this yesterday, but we saw a huge spam increase at
work and in order to stem the tide, hosts that sent spam to us were
being blocked for access. Unfortunately, someone must have sent spam
spoofing my domain or something because somehow my site got flagged as a
spam site and I couldn't connect. I've got the block removed, but now
I'm working with my ISP and our IT guys to see why I got blocked in the
first place and track down what we can do to stop it in the future (if
anything). I'm in a shared environment, so there's not a lot I can do
from a server lockdown perspective other than having strong passwords on
my accounts.

 Which brings us to today - Friday - and even though it's been a short
week, it's been a *long* week. I woke up this morning exhausted and with
a distinct lack of motivation. I'm doing what I can to motivate myself
chemically (Mountain Dew?) but it's not working super well. I won't lie

- I'm just not interested in what I'm tasked to do, so it's difficult to
have a lot of zeal. Hopefully there will be something more fun to deal
with next week.
