---
layout: post
title: "Bioshock, John Woo's Stranglehold, Overlord, and Other Demos"
date: 2007-08-16 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1256
tags: [Gaming]
---
I've tried out a bunch of game demos over the last few days on Xbox Live
Marketplace and thought I'd share some feedback and maybe save you some
time.

**The Good Ones...**

[![Bioshock Gamestop Limited
Edition](https://hyqi8g.dm1.livefilestore.com/y2pRAz5mskGxQsQ75MDDhWxb5jER-eUUwjd6exf4UbA9QozoVL4_xCdBWqNm29ZHLyPNpwl_T6CEj30YjuiQGqUG_zPJe0cuczC89XVcJlbzoQ/20070816bioshock.jpg?psid=1)**Bioshock**](http://www.gamestop.com/product.asp?product%5Fid=200317): 
Possibly the richest first-person shooter environment I've ever seen,
this game takes you to the underwater city of "Rapture," an exquisite
art deco masterpiece, where you take on a society of genetically
modified citizens in an effort to uncover the mysteries of the city and
escape.  I couldn't put it down, my dad couldn't put it down... it's
amazing and compelling.  I found a Barnes & Noble gift certificate I had
and just now pre-ordered [the Gamestop Limited
Edition](http://www.gamestop.com/product.asp?product%5Fid=200317) of
this for the additional \$10, which comes with a soundtrack CD, behind
the scenes DVD, and action figure.

**UPDATE 9/5/07:** The availability of the limited edition changes so
the links to it are flaky.  If you want to see more on *Bioshock*,
[check out the regular
version](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000MKA60W?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000MKA60W) or
try finding one [new/used at
Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000VESHEQ?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000VESHEQ).

**[Overlord](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000QS1K46?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000QS1K46)**: 
Tired of being the good guy in games?  Be the bad guy!  This game lets
you "construct your evil empire" by ordering your minions about to carry
out your nefarious deeds.  You run around in third-person as the
"overlord" and send your minions to fight, overcome obstacles, etc.  I
was struck by the humor in this one and had a blast with the demo.  Not
sure I'll pay a full \$60 for it, but if I find it used for cheaper,
I'll certainly look twice.

**[John Woo's
Stranglehold](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GPVUOY?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000GPVUOY)**: 
I like John Woo, and while I wasn't overwhelmed by the awesomeness of
*[Hard
Boiled](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000N4SHNK?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000N4SHNK)*,
this game was definitely a lot of fun and very stylish.  You play
Tequila, the [Chow Yun-Fat](http://us.imdb.com/name/nm0000334/)
character, a cop trying to track down some cop killers.  Running around
shooting the bad guys is fun, and the special powers you get and the
interactions with the environment make it cool to watch and play.  Even
Jenn was commenting on how cool it looked as I showed her the demo. 
Very easy to pick up and play and even comes with a "Casual" difficulty
so you can just have fun with it.  Again, maybe not \$60, but definitely
on the list.

**The Not-So-Good Ones...**

**[Hexic
2](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/h/hexic2xboxlivearcade/default.htm)**: 
I played the first one because it came for free with the Xbox 360.  This
one adds an incomprehensible "battle mode" and removes the easy-to-see
colors of the original interface with a washed-out set of colors that
makes the whole thing just confusing and hard to play.  Deleted.

**[Fatal Inertia](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/f/fatalinertia/)**: 
Spaceship racing with weapons thrown in - hey, never seen that before. 
Oh, and if you could make it more difficult to control and basically
cause me to lose the race if I mess up one turn, that'd be great, too. 
Deleted.

**[The Darkness](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/t/thedarkness/)**:  I
collect comics, and I read *The Darkness*, so I was actually hoping for
some serious coolness here.  It was sort of neat, but generally I just
ran around confused and disoriented, not really knowing where to go or
what to do.  I got to a point in the demo where I was running around
outside some sort of compound and ended up just quitting the demo
because I couldn't figure out what to do next.  The idea was neat, but
the execution... not so much.  I think if I saw it for like \$20 I'd
consider it because when I was able to figure out what to do, it was
fun.  Can't imagine putting myself through that torture for \$60,
though.

**[Track and
Field](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/t/trackandfieldxboxlivearcade/default.htm)**: 
Message to Konami - please stop porting crappy games to the Xbox Live
Arcade.  Seriously.  Just quit.

**[Ecco the
Dolphin](http://www.xbox.com/en-US/games/e/eccothedolphinxboxlivearcade/default.htm)**: 
Didn't this suck when it came out the first time?  I, uh, swam around
aimlessly for a while, basically not getting it, dying a few times, and
called it a day.

