---
layout: post
title: "The ASP.NET 2.0 Anthology"
date: 2007-10-30 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1283
tags: [aspnet,dotnet,books]
---
[![The ASP.NET 2.0 Anthology by Allen, Atwood, Barnett, Galloway, and
Haack.]({{ site.url }}/images/20071030aspnetanthology.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/098028581X?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=098028581X)I
just got through reading *[The ASP.NET 2.0
Anthology](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/098028581X?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=098028581X)*
and I have to say, I liked it.

*Anthology* is a "cookbook" approach at showing different tips and
tricks for working with ASP.NET 2.0.  If you've never set foot in
ASP.NET land, this isn't for you - it's not a "newbie trying to learn
ASP.NET" book.  It's more of a "moderately experienced ASP.NET developer
trying to sharpen the saw" book.

The voice of the book is fairly informal, which makes it nice - like
you're learning tips from a friend, rather than being dictated to.  Even
some of the code snippets - which are shown in a nice, easy-to-read
format - inject humor (watch for the *Office Space* references in the
"Working With Email" chapter).  It made the book really easy to get
through and understand.

The book covers a large range of topics, from error handling to
membership and role providers to form validation.  What was a pleasant
surprise to see is that it covered a lot of things many other books
don't, like project format, source control, and usage of popular
third-party libraries (e.g.,
[log4net](http://logging.apache.org/log4net/) and
[SubSonic](http://www.subsonicproject.com/)).  There's discussion of
non-ASP.NET issues like design patterns and practices, data access layer
usage, and basic SQL Server query optimization - things that a
reasonably experienced ASP.NET developer bumps into on occasion but may
not have had time to delve into.  It even addresses differences for
users of the Visual Studio Express Editions, who normally get sort of
"left by the wayside."

There were really only a couple of minor issues that I found with the
book.

First, there's a chapter in there called ".NET 2.0 Core Libraries" that
looks as though it's intended to give an overview of, well, the .NET 2.0
core libraries... but in the 30 pages allocated to the topic you can
barely scratch the surface, so it generally comes off as slightly
schizophrenic, hopping from topic to topic.

The other issue I found is that there are some surprisingly good
"nuggets" of information that seem misplaced and, in some cases,
outright hidden, in the book and deserved a little more time in the
sun.  For example, cross-page postbacks were sort of hidden in the
"Component-based Development" chapter and asynchronous pages were hidden
in the "Working With Email" chapter.  Interesting and valuable
information that just sort of felt "out of place."

Overall, the content of the book far outweighs any of the minor
organizational problems you run into.  If you're looking for something
to learn from and spark ideas of ways to make better ASP.NET
applications, this is a great book.

[In the interest of full disclosure: I was sent a review copy for free
from one of the authors, [Jon
Galloway](http://weblogs.asp.net/jgalloway/).  Thanks, Jon!]
