---
layout: post
title: "There Will Always Be Subject Matter Experts"
date: 2007-06-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1212
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
I've started a new project where we're doing our best to get every
developer familiar with all the parts of the system by [moving people
around a bit, XP
style](http://www.extremeprogramming.org/rules/movepeople.html). The
idea is that we want to break down the knowledge silos so there's not
just one person who knows how each system works. I think that's a great
idea. If someone wins the lottery (or gets hit by a bus), we don't want
the whole project to crumble.

 That said, there's a particular undertone to some of the moving that
worries me: the notion that somehow we can get rid of subject matter
experts and everyone will know everything about the system.

 I don't think that's a realistic goal. I think it's a great idea to get
folks familiar with how the various parts of the system work, but the
system itself is far too big and there are too many changes going on
over the course of time for anyone to keep intimate familiarity with the
entire system in their head. At some point, you're going to have someone
who has more knowledge about how one area of the system works than
anyone else, and you're back to the knowledge silo of a subject matter
expert.

 The topic of skill set comes up here, too. Some people are better than
others at certain tasks, be it due to education, experience, or both.
Good idea: peer mentoring involving these folks. Bad idea: thinking you
can make everyone on the team as proficient as experienced individual
just by switching people around. Not everyone is a DBA. Not everyone is
an architect. It's not realistic to expect you can swap people into
those roles and hope the system comes out as coherent and high quality
as if you just trusted the tasks to the folks with the relevant skill
set.

 From a time/savings standpoint, it also occurs to me that putting
someone who is good at a task on that task will cost less and get the
task done faster than if you decided to put a less familiar person on
the task. And if you keep moving people around, you may never actually
gain momentum - it's hard to work fast when you're trying to learn at
the same time. Great experience for the developers, great knowledge
distribution, not so great velocity.

 There's a reason the phrase "jack of all trades, master of none" came
about. It's great that folks want to be generalists, and spreading the
wealth of knowledge is an admirable goal. But there will always be
subject matter experts, and that's not a bad thing. Rather than try to
get rid of them, I might recommend taking advantage of their expertise
and doing a little peer mentoring to spread knowledge without trying to
abolish the notion entirely. You'll educate your developers *and* be
able to gain project momentum by targeting the specialized skill set to
pertinent tasks, and that's a Good Thing.
