---
layout: post
title: "MIX07 - Day 0"
date: 2007-04-29 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1188
tags: [conferences,aspnet,dotnet]
---
[The conference](http://visitmix.com) technically starts tomorrow, but
I'm in town a day early to get settled so I can be there, bright-eyed
and bushy-tailed. Or at least bright-eyed.

 There was a mashup session that ran from 4:00p to 8:00p alongside
registration, but by the time I got here, got registered, got to the
room, and got something to eat... well, I also got a little tired and
didn't really feel like throwing down with the mad technical skillz.
Instead, I thought it would be prudent to take it easy - it's been a
long day, and I do want to be ready to pay attention and learn in some
of the great sessions planned.

 My schedule looks like this:

 Monday, April 30
 9:30a - General Session
 1:30p - Building Rich Web Experiences using Silverlight and JavaScript
for Developers
 3:00p - Using Visual Studio "Orcas" to Design and Develop Rich AJAX
Enabled Web Sites
 4:30p - AJAX Patterns with ASP.NET

 Tuesday, May 1
 8:30a - Front-Ending the Web with Microsoft Office
 10:15a - Designing with AJAX: Yahoo! Pattern Library
 11:45a - Developing ASP.NET AJAX Controls with Silverlight
 2:15p - Go Deep with AJAX
 4:00p - General Session

 Wednesday, May 2
 8:30a - How to Make AJAX Applications Scream on the Client
 10:00a - Windows Presentation Foundation for Developers (Part 1 of 2)
 11:30a - Windows Presentation Foundation for Developers (Part 2 of 2)

 Interestingly, this isn't the schedule as I originally planned it on
Friday. Even up to the last minute the times, places, and topics are
changing. I don't know if this is the set of classes I'll actually be in
or not, but we'll see.

 Getting into the spirit of things, I've joined
[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com) and
[Twitter](http://www.twitter.com) since those seem to be ways folks are
supposed to coordinate things. I'm not super taken with either one, but
then, I'm not a big "social networker." I'll withhold judgment for now.
