---
layout: post
title: "Painting Is Like Twizzlers"
date: 2008-03-24 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1365
tags: [home]
---
We painted the master bathroom this weekend and I realized that
painting, for me, is a lot like Twizzlers. Stick with me.

I love [red licorice](http://www.redvines.com/). It's so tasty and chewy
and wonderful that I'm sure it's got to be good for me.
[Twizzlers](http://www.hersheys.com/products/details/twizzler/index.asp),
on the other hand... Twizzlers *looks* like red licorice, it *smells*
like red licorice, but it is not, by any stretch of the imagination, red
licorice. It's waxy and nasty and probably contains petrochemicals of
some sort. Twizzlers is like processed cheese food compared to the [Brie
de Meaux](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brie_(cheese)) of red licorice.

The problem is that Twizzlers so convincingly resembles red licorice
from the outside that I forget how nasty it is. I'll be craving red
licorice, see a Twizzler, grab it, eat it, want to die, and remember how
bad it is. I might remember it for like six months or so, until one day
my red licorice craving gets the better of me and I see a Twizzler, take
a bite, then smack myself repeatedly in the forehead Rain Man
style screaming, "STUPID! STUPID! STUPID! Twizzlers is not red
licorice!" And another six months will go by before I forget how bad it
is again. Rinse and repeat.

I hate painting. Hate it. It's messy and it takes a long time and I
always underestimate the amount of effort it's going to take to get the
job done. My attitude over the course of a painting job changes for the
worse, too. I'll start out sort of cheerful, singing my [Happy Working
Song](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000VWQTXE?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B000VWQTXE),
and six hours later I'm ready to kill.

But, like Twizzlers, after about six to nine months, I always forget.

This time, we were looking at the master bathroom, thinking how drab it
was. It was painted in the color "Arbor White," which is a special
off-white color that [Arbor Custom Homes](http://www.arborhomes.com/)
uses when it builds houses. (If you want touch-up paint, if you go to
[Home Depot](http://www.homedepot.com) and ask for "Arbor White," they
know. There's no paint chip or anything, they just know.) The problem
is, if you hold real white up to it, you would probably want to call it
"Arbor Brown" because it's not remotely white.

Anyway, we were gazing into the gaping Arbor Brown maw that was our
master bathroom, thinking how drab it was, when we decided it needed a
coat of paint. It having been probably a year or more since I last
painted, I forgot that I vowed not to paint again, so we ran down to the
Home Depot and picked up some paint. We ended up with a scheme similar
to the following, with "Drowsy Lavender" as the main color. (This isn't
exactly it, but I don't remember the exact colors. It doesn't really
matter.)

![Paint scheme: drowsy lavender, cotton whisper, river valley, and
white.]({{ site.url }}/images/20080324paintscheme.png)

We started painting on Saturday and we got about halfway done in five
hours or so. Some primer and a first coat on the walls and the ceiling.
At the end of Saturday I was in Twizzlers-land: "STUPID! STUPID! STUPID!
Painting sucks!" Of course, we were sort of committed by then, so we had
to finish.

We spent several more hours on Sunday trying desperately to finish but
failing miserably. We got the second coat on the walls and the ceiling
and we started on the trim.

It was about this time where we really started noticing that the door
and the blinds were Arbor White but the ceiling was true white and...
hmmm. Screw it. We're SO NOT painting the door and the blinds.

So we've got to finish the trim this week and do some touch-ups.
Probably another couple of hours' worth of work. I wondered how people
on *[Trading
Spaces](http://tlc.discovery.com/tv/trading-spaces/trading-spaces.html)*
did all of this in two days, but then Jenn reminded me that it's not
just two people - there's a team of people behind the scenes. Maybe if
[Laurie](http://tlc.discovery.com/tv/trading-spaces/meet-the-team/laurie-hickson-smith.html)
showed up it would be better, but probably not.

I swear I'm going to remember this time: Hire someone to paint. Painting
sucks. It's always more work than you anticipate and it makes
you grumpy.

Eh. That'll last, what, six months?

