---
layout: post
title: "Zuma's Revenge"
date: 2009-10-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1574
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
I ended up getting a copy of [Zuma's
Revenge](http://www.popcap.com/games/zumasrevenge/), the sequel to [the
original game](http://www.popcap.com/games/zuma) that sucked both Jenn
and I in so bad on PC and, later, [on Xbox Live
Arcade](http://marketplace.xbox.com/en-US/games/media/66acd000-77fe-1000-9115-d802584107ef/).

The premise of the original game is that you're a little frog who sits
in the middle of the screen. A line of colored balls scrolls in from
off-screen along a path. As they scroll in, you can spit additional
balls into the line to form chains of three or more, making them
disappear. If the line gets too long, you lose. Here's a screen from the
original Zuma:

![The original
Zuma.](http://images.popcap.com/www/images/product/screens/large/zuma/1033/zuma3.jpg "The original Zuma.")

It's surprisingly addictive and fun. Fortunately, you get that and more
with the sequel.

This time, they add new features like boss battles (at the end of
several levels, you "fight" against a computerized opponent), movement
(in some levels your frog scrolls left and right or can hop from one
location to another), and power-ups (shoot cannonballs that destroy
balls on-screen or lasers to precisely remove individual balls). Here's
a screen from the new game.

![Zuma's
Revenge!](http://images.popcap.com/www/images/product/screens/large/zumasrevenge/1033/zumasrevenge1.jpg "Zuma's Revenge!")

Seriously fun. Jenn and I have been playing quite a bit since we got it
and have had a blast.

Now, admittedly, the main game seems to be slightly easier than the
original Zuma. I'm not sure if that's intentional or if maybe my
hand-eye coordination has increased since playing the original, but we
were able to get through the story mode of Zuma's Revenge fairly
quickly. Thankfully, there are a bunch of other game modes in Zuma's
Revenge that let you keep coming back for more, and those are more
challenging (if that's what you're looking for).

Only real downside I can see is that they don't have it on Xbox Live
Arcade, just PC. I'm not a PC gamer, really, and our computer's not
geared for PC games, so I had to switch from full-screen to windowed
mode and turn off the HD graphics. It still looks great, it was just
slow with all the bells and whistles on.

If you're into puzzle games, [Zuma's
Revenge](http://www.popcap.com/games/zumasrevenge/) is worth checking
out.

(Full disclosure: I got a free license for the game from Popcap.)

