---
layout: post
title: "Random Thoughts from 4/25 Weekend"
date: 2009-04-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1519
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Lots of random thoughts that came up between Saturday and now, figured
I'd get them down. None probably of interest to anyone but me, but we'll
get 'em down anyway.

Saw *[State of Play](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0473705/)* this weekend
for my dad's birthday. It was decent and had some good plot twists, but
I think there were parts that could have moved a little faster. Jenn got
bored and there were definitely a few spots where I was like, "come
ONNNNNN." I won't be buying the DVD, but it was worth seeing. Maybe wait
for the rental.

I cleaned our [Sunsetter](http://www.sunsetter.com/) retractable awning
this weekend to prepare it for the season. I find that I have to do this
every year because the moisture from the winter gets inside the rolled
up awning and it gets a little moldy. Covering the awning doesn't help.
It's not a bad build-up, just a little dirty looking. Sprayed it down
with some "[30 Seconds](http://www.30seconds.net/)" and it came out
looking very nice, but I didn't realize the cleaner has bleach in it...
so my jacket came out looking like it had rained white on me. Not a big
deal since it was my outdoor work jacket, but sort of weird, especially
since it says "safe to use around plants and animals" on it.

We got some La-Z-Boy recliners delivered, completing our game room, but
I always seem to have problems with things that other people don't. The
leather looks great, I sat in one before the delivery guy left and it
felt good, then later that night Jenn and I were sitting there (Jenn in
the one I didn't sit in) and it turns out the seat on that one is tilted
to the right so it feels like you're sliding sideways. The repair guy
will be here on Wednesday for that. (There's a repair guy coming today
for another piece of furniture we had delivered a couple of weeks ago
where the leather was scratched.)

Oh, and my [Ion Drum Rocker](http://www.drumrocker.com) is on the fritz.
I was playing the "Drum Trainer" mode in Rock Band 2, doing reasonably
well, but at random intervals the "up" directional arrow thought it was
getting pushed so the tempo would speed up on me without warning. A few
times of that and I called their support. The control box for that is
getting repaired now but it could be seven to eight weeks before I'm
back up and running. I've got a call in to see if I can get that sped
up. We really wanted to have a Rock Band party but you kinda can't
without drums.

Jenn and I got tickets to see the B-52's and Tears for Fears (two
different concerts, not one concert with two acts) this summer at the
Oregon Zoo. Looking forward to that.

While I was zoning out getting my teeth cleaned this morning, I was
thinking that eventually there's got to be a system of record for human
intelligence. It doesn't necessarily have to contain all of human
intelligence, but it needs to at least index it. Then we'll end up with
little implants that have wireless network access in them and can call
into that system. I don't know if it'd be Google or Wikipedia. I guess
it depends on whether the system actually needs to contain the
information or just index it. Hmmm. Anyway, thinking about how that
would work kept me busy while I was getting my teeth cleaned.

I downloaded the [BlackBerry app from
Amazon](http://www.amazon.com/gp/anywhere/sms/bbapp) and I must say so
far I'm impressed. It's much better than the mobile web experience and
it has that thing built in where you can take a picture of something and
it'll find similar items that they sell on Amazon. I haven't tried that
yet. Might have to later. I wonder what happens if I send a picture of
myself in - what items do they sell that are similar to me?

