---
layout: post
title: "Subtext 2.1.0.5 Staged Upgrade Complete"
date: 2009-02-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1497
tags: [subtext,blog,aspnet]
---
It's been a long time in the making, but since the last time I tried to
upgrade my blog to the latest Subtext [failed so
miserably](/archive/2008/08/16/failed-to-upgrade-to-subtext-2.0.aspx), I
wanted to build up a full staging environment and test the heck out of
it before trying to do it in production. To that end, I got a Windows
Server 2003 VM up and running, complete with my web host's
slightly-customized Medium trust configuration files and a copy of a
recent database backup, and ran through the upgrade process.

Turns out it's a good thing I did it in staging first. I discovered a
few things that didn't upgrade too smoothly so it's good I caught them.

First, a couple of spots in the web controls changed from List\<T\> to
Collection\<T\>, which isn't a big deal but does cause a bit of a
headache if you've got some custom stuff in App\_Code that fails to
compile because of that. Again, though, no big deal.

The showstopper ended up being this second problem: While the home page
would load fine, going to any individual entry page would yield the
Yellow Screen of Death with a FileIOPermission problem in
Ssytem.Web.UI.ScriptManager:

    Exception Details: System.Security.SecurityException: Request for the permission of type 'System.Security.Permissions.FileIOPermission, mscorlib, Version=2.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=b77a5c561934e089' failed.

    Stack Trace:

    [SecurityException: Request for the permission of type 'System.Security.Permissions.FileIOPermission, mscorlib, Version=2.0.0.0, Culture=neutral, PublicKeyToken=b77a5c561934e089' failed.]
       System.Security.CodeAccessSecurityEngine.Check(Object demand, StackCrawlMark& stackMark, Boolean isPermSet) +0
       System.Security.CodeAccessPermission.Demand() +59
       System.Reflection.Assembly.VerifyCodeBaseDiscovery(String codeBase) +118
       System.Reflection.Assembly.get_CodeBase() +32
       System.Web.Handlers.ScriptResourceHandler.GetCodeBaseWithAssert(Assembly assembly) +31
       System.Web.Handlers.ScriptResourceHandler.GetLastWriteTime(Assembly assembly) +36
       System.Web.Handlers.ScriptResourceHandler.GetAssemblyInfoInternal(Assembly assembly) +58
       System.Web.Handlers.ScriptResourceHandler.GetAssemblyInfo(Assembly assembly) +59
       System.Web.Handlers.RuntimeScriptResourceHandler.System.Web.Handlers.IScriptResourceHandler.GetScriptResourceUrl(Assembly assembly, String resourceName, CultureInfo culture, Boolean zip, Boolean notifyScriptLoaded) +336
       System.Web.UI.ScriptManager.GetScriptResourceUrl(String resourceName, Assembly assembly) +114
       System.Web.UI.ScriptRegistrationManager.RegisterClientScriptResource(Control control, Type type, String resourceName) +115
       System.Web.UI.ScriptManager.RegisterClientScriptResource(Control control, Type type, String resourceName) +9

What the heck?

Turns out Subtext 2.1.0.5 ships with a copy of the ASP.NET AJAX 1.0
System.Web.Extensions assembly in its bin folder. On a system with .NET
3.5 SP1 installed, you don't want the old one - you want the new one,
particularly since it's in the GAC and will run with Full trust.

To fix the issue, I deleted the local copy of System.Web.Extensions.dll
from the bin folder and added the following bindingRedirect to the
web.config file:

    <configuration>
      <runtime>
        <assemblyBinding xmlns="urn:schemas-microsoft-com:asm.v1">
          <dependentAssembly>
            <assemblyIdentity name="System.Web.Extensions" publicKeyToken="31bf3856ad364e35" culture="neutral"/>
            <bindingRedirect oldVersion="1.0.61025.0" newVersion="3.5.0.0"/>
          </dependentAssembly>
        </assemblyBinding>
      </runtime>
    </configuration>

Done and done. After that, everything seemed to work perfectly. There
are a lot of new featues in Subtext 2.1.0.5 that I'm looking forward to
taking advantage of, so now I've got to schedule some time to do the
upgrade. Probably not this weekend - I really want to take it easy. But
soon.

