---
layout: post
title: "2009 Retrospective"
date: 2009-12-29 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1599
tags: [personal]
---
I just finished upgrading the last of our computers at home to Windows 7
and now that I have Windows Live Writer installed I figured I'd do my
yearly retrospective - see what's gone on this year and recap.

In January I found that they were ending Google Notebook so I had to
move all of my notes over to [PBworks](http://www.pbworks.com). That was
sort of painful, but I'm really enjoying PBworks now and I have a ton of
stuff in there. I also released version 2.2.1.0 of
[CR\_Documentor](http://cr-documentor.googlecode.com), a bug fix
release.

In February I showed you [how to upgrade your Windows Home Server
capacity with an eSATA port
replicator](/archive/2009/02/04/increase-your-windows-home-server-capacity-with-esata.aspx)
and [upgraded my main TV to a 52" Samsung
LN52A750](/archive/2009/02/18/samsung-ln52a750-52-lcd-tv-fan-freaking-tastic.aspx)
(still great, and still recommended).

March was pretty eventful. [I upgraded my blog to Subtest
2.1.0.5](/archive/2009/03/02/subtext-2.1.0.5-production-upgrade-complete.aspx).
I reflected a bit on [why it's a good idea to keep a cool
head](/archive/2009/03/09/on-the-importance-of-keeping-a-cool-head.aspx)
in a tough situation. I ran into some User Account Control issues in
Windows Server 2008 and [wrote about some power toys that will help you
out with
that](/archive/2009/03/12/elevation-power-toys-and-vs-2008-admin-command-prompt-here.aspx)
as well as [providing my own Visual Studio related elevation
toy](/archive/2009/03/13/elevate-vs-solution-power-toy.aspx). I went to
MIX09 and blogged all three days
([1](/archive/2009/03/18/mix09-day-1.aspx),
[2](/archive/2009/03/19/mix09-day-2.aspx),
[3](/archive/2009/03/20/mix09-day-3.aspx)). My MIX trip then spun off
[some travel luggage
recommendations](/archive/2009/03/26/travel-luggage.aspx).

At the beginning of April I found that [most of my network configuration
problems were due to Verizon updating my FiOS router
automatically](/archive/2009/04/04/verizon-fios-router-auto-updating-and-configuration-problems.aspx),
requiring me to restore my router to factory defaults more than once
since then. I found that [an HDMI switchbox can help solve issues where
your TV loses the HDMI
signal](/archive/2009/04/05/solution-to-dell-studio-hybrid-hdmi-sleep-problems.aspx)
when your computer goes to sleep. Jenn and I took [a three-day vacation
to Vegas](/archive/2009/04/12/vegas-vacation-spring-2009.aspx), which is
always a good time. I released version 2.3.0.1 of
[CR\_Documentor](http://cr-documentor.googlecode.com) and [put out a
solicitation for
input](/archive/2009/04/16/need-input-cr_documentor-features-in-use.aspx)
(with not much response, to be honest). I wrote about [some challenges
I've faced while trying to write multi-tenant ASP.NET
apps](/archive/2009/04/21/challenges-of-multi-tenant-enterprise-asp.net-applications.aspx).
I also wrote about some challenges I faced with my Blackberry due to the
Facebook application - [if you're having trouble synchronizing, check
your default
services](/archive/2009/04/23/blackberry-calendar-not-synchronizing-check-default-services.aspx).

May found me offering some tips on [proper use for bullet
lists](/archive/2009/05/05/writing-101-bullets-are-for-lists.aspx) and
[finishing off the ripping of all of my
DVDs](/archive/2009/05/06/finished-ripping-movies.aspx). (Did you know
an average DVD is 6.7GB?) I wrote [a script to automatically set the
album artist on your iTunes
tracks](/archive/2009/05/09/automatically-set-album-artist-in-itunes.aspx).
[I reviewed *ASP.NET 3.5 Enterprise Application Development with Visual
Studio
2008*](/archive/2009/05/15/review-asp.net-3.5-enterprise-application-development-with-visual-studio-2008.aspx).
I explained [how to get iTunes music playing in Windows Media
Center](/archive/2009/05/19/getting-itunes-music-to-play-in-windows-media-center.aspx),
though Windows 7 fixes a lot of the issues there. Plus I showed you [how
to use the MSBuild engine in your programs and take advantage of the
file finding functionality in
there](/archive/2009/05/22/robust-file-finding-in-your-app-with-msbuild.aspx).

June started out where I showed you [how to use Typemock Isolator to
skip generic
constructors](/archive/2009/06/03/skipping-n-level-deep-generic-constructors-with-typemock-isolator.aspx).
[I got an HD camcorder and struggled with the file
formats](/archive/2009/06/15/hd-camcorders-and-video-files.aspx). I
reflected a bit on [blogs that rip off content and publish it as their
own](/archive/2009/06/21/levels-of-plagiarism.aspx). I talked about
[defragmenting your Windows Home Server
drives](/archive/2009/06/22/defragmenting-windows-home-server.aspx),
then I went to see [the B-52s in
concert](/archive/2009/06/22/the-b-52s-at-the-oregon-zoo.aspx). June
ended on a huge down note, though, as [my Grandma Jeanne passed away at
86](/archive/2009/06/28/goodbye-grandma-jeanne.aspx).

July started out with a nifty trick - I showed [how to change Windows
Service runtime behavior using Typemock
Isolator](/archive/2009/07/01/changing-windows-service-behavior-with-typemock-isolator.aspx).
I also showed you [how to get the Windows OS version from inside
MSBuild](/archive/2009/07/06/getting-the-windows-os-version-in-msbuild.aspx).
I talked about [the SQL Server installer constantly requiring a
reboot](/archive/2009/07/10/if-sql-server-install-always-requires-reboot-check-the-registry.aspx)
(which always seems to be the case for me) and how to fix it. I [updated
my custom NAnt tasks to .NET
2.0](/archive/2009/07/16/paraesthesia.tools.nanttasks-2.0.0.0-released.aspx).
On a personal note, [my birthday was
awesome](/archive/2009/07/27/four-days-of-birthday-awesome.aspx) and [I
went to see Tears for Fears in
concert](/archive/2009/07/13/tears-for-fears-at-the-oregon-zoo.aspx).
The biggest thing in July, though, was [Jenn and I running our own
fireworks shoot in
Sandy](/archive/2009/07/07/sandy-fireworks-2009.aspx). Scary and
exhilarating.

August started out brilliantly with [one of our famous *24*
marathons](/archive/2009/08/09/24-season-7.aspx). I discovered [the
coolness that is Asset UPnP on Windows Home
Server](/archive/2009/08/11/stream-more-music-from-windows-home-server-with-asset-upnp.aspx)
and showed you [how to back Windows Home Server up to
MozyHome](/archive/2009/08/17/backing-up-windows-home-server-to-mozyhome.aspx).
I showed you [how to write Firefox extensions using Visual
Studio](/archive/2009/08/20/write-firefox-extensions-in-visual-studio-with-web-site-projects.aspx)
and I even released one of my own - [Firefox NTLMAuth, a plugin to help
you with Windows pass-through authentication in
Firefox](/archive/2009/08/21/firefox-ntlmauth-easier-windows-auth-for-firefox.aspx).

Jenn and I started September with [a trip to Victoria, BC,
Canada](/archive/2009/09/09/2009-vacation-in-victoria-bc-canada.aspx) -
good times. I found [a little gotcha when using the Windows Vista DVD
burner and it tells you there aren't any files to
burn](/archive/2009/09/14/burning-cddvd-on-vista-no-files-to-burn.aspx).
I [updated my iTunes metadata copying
program](/archive/2009/09/18/copytrackmetadata-1.2.0.0-released.aspx)
for the latest iTunes. [I reviewed *Professional ASP.NET MVC
1.0*](/archive/2009/09/22/book-review-professional-asp.net-mvc-1.0.aspx).
Jenn and I went to see [The Killers in
concert](/archive/2009/09/25/the-killers-the-memorial-coliseum.aspx)
(awesome!). I posted a couple of ASP.NET AJAX tips - [using ASP.NET AJAX
String.format() in jQuery
validation](/archive/2009/09/29/replace-jquery-validation-message-formatting-with-asp.net-ajax-string.format.aspx)
and [parsing currency
values](/archive/2009/09/30/parsing-currency-values-with-asp.net-ajax.aspx).
Finally, I created [a quick DXCore plugin that helps other plugin
writers explore
contexts](/archive/2009/09/30/dx_contextlab-help-in-checkingdebugging-dxcore-contexts.aspx).

In October I started out with another jQuery/ASP.NET AJAX tip -
[converting relative to absolute
paths](/archive/2009/10/02/convert-a-relative-path-to-absolute-path-with-jquery-and.aspx).
I did [a one-year retrospective with my Windows Home
Server](/archive/2009/10/26/one-year-retrospective-with-windows-home-server.aspx).
I discovered [the hugest gotcha with the "COMPLUS\_Version" environment
variable and the .NET
runtime](/archive/2009/10/29/complus_version-and-the-.net-framework-runtime.aspx)
- I wish that was more clearly documented. And, finally, [this year we
had 243 trick-or-treaters on
Halloween](/archive/2009/11/03/243-trick-or-treaters.aspx).

In November I had to [manually uninstall a Windows Home Server
add-in](/archive/2009/11/02/manually-uninstalling-a-windows-home-server-add-in.aspx)
and showed [how to upgrade PerfectDisk for Windows Home
Server](/archive/2009/11/03/how-to-upgrade-perfectdisk-for-windows-home-server.aspx).
I ran into [a weird edge case with XML serialization while debugging a
Visual Studio
add-in](/archive/2009/11/03/debugging-visual-studio-add-ins-and-xmlserialization-problems.aspx).
I did some work on my Media Center and figured out [the Windows 7
supported media
formats](/archive/2009/11/04/windows-7-supported-audiovideo-formats.aspx),
how to fix [that one-pixel line in Windows Media Center
playback](/archive/2009/11/12/fixing-the-weird-one-pixel-line-in-windows-media-center.aspx),
and talked a bit about [metadata and artist names on music
files](/archive/2009/11/24/filing-music-dealing-with-artist-names.aspx).
I showed [how to create icons for your context menu items in
DXCore](/archive/2009/11/09/context-menu-icons-with-dxcore.aspx) and
[how to put your log4net.config outside your app.config/web.config
file](/archive/2009/11/20/putting-log4net.config-outside-of-application-configuration.aspx).
November ended, as it always does, with [my least favorite holiday
ever](/archive/2009/11/30/nothing-says-thanksgiving-like-people-getting-their-asses-kicked.aspx).

In December I [updated my Subtext database maintenance page for Subtext
2.1.0.5](/archive/2009/12/10/easier-subtext-2.1.0.5-maintenance.aspx),
but I did two other programming things that I was more proud of: I
released [a DXCore plugin, CR\_CodeTweet, that lets you tweet code
snippets from inside Visual
Studio](/archive/2009/12/11/cr_codetweet-tweet-code-snippets-from-visual-studio.aspx);
and I released [a Windows Live Writer plugin that lets you upload images
to
ImageShack](/archive/2009/12/15/imageshackwriterplugin-upload-to-imageshack-from-windows-live-writer.aspx).
As part of that ImageShack upload plugin, I figured out [how to post
multipart/form-data using .NET
WebRequest](/archive/2009/12/16/posting-multipartform-data-using-.net-webrequest.aspx).

Overall, the year was decent, but not great. Like everyone else, we've
had our challenges with the economy. There have been a couple of fairly
difficult personal issues to face as well. On the bright side, Jenn and
I are both healthy, and we've got a nice place to live, we both have
jobs, and we're otherwise doing well, so I can't say we're in a bad
spot. I'll be glad to see 2009 past and I look forward to seeing what
2010 holds.

