---
layout: post
title: "Support H.264 in Sony Vegas with x264vfw"
date: 2009-12-31 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1600
tags: [media]
---
[![Creative Vado
HD](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/31vF3J7gDML._AA200_.jpg "Creative Vado HD")](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LK8P14?ie=UTF8&amp;tag=mhsvortex&amp;linkCode=as2&amp;camp=1789&amp;creative=390957&amp;creativeASIN=B001LK8P14)I
got [a Creative Vado HD
camera](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001LK8P14?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B001LK8P14)
for Christmas from Jenn and have been messing around a bit with it. I
like the recording quality, but I found in Windows Vista you have to
install an H.264 codec in order to get the videos to play in Windows
Media Player. (In Windows 7 they provide an H.264 codec for Windows
Media Player so you don't have to install anything else.)

While playback is fine and dandy, I'm not really interested in editing
the videos I take with the camera in the simplistic editor they provide.
I suppose if I just zapped something really quick to jam up on YouTube
that'd be great, but I find I end up with several clips where I need to
trim the start/end on them, maybe crossfade them into each other -
nothing really major, but more than the little app offers. I have Sony
Vegas to do my video editing and it works great.

Except on H.264.

See, Windows does not come with a codec that Sony Vegas can use to edit
these files. You can get the audio, but not the video. Really dumb, and
dumber still that Sony didn't pre-package one just in case, particularly
since H.264 is so popular.

The answer: [x264vfw - a free, open-source Video for Windows H.264
codec](http://x264vfw.sourceforge.net/).

Once you install x264vfw - three clicks, tops - magically everything
works the way you want it to. Playback in Windows Media Player, editing
in Sony Vegas... fantastic.

Note that I have seen other solutions for this posted elsewhere
encouraging you to install the whole [K-Lite Mega Codec
Pack](http://www.codecguide.com/download_kl.htm) and everything that
comes with it. That's overkill. You only need a VFW (Video for Windows)
H.264 codec, and K-Lite uses x264vfw internally anyway. I'm a fan of
only installing the things you absolutely have to, and just x264vfw will
take care of it.

UPDATE 1/4/2010: This appears to have broken in Sony Vegas 10. I had it
working in Vegas 9 and for various reasons upgraded to Vegas 10 and now
it doesn't work. It appears that the recommendation in the Sony Vegas
knowledge base is to use Windows Live Movie Maker to convert the video
to a different format (since Windows can read/play it but Vegas can't).
For that purpose, I created a new custom setting in Windows Live Movie
Maker with the following values:

- Width: 1280
- Height: 720
- Bit rate: 8500
- Frame rate: 30
- Audio format: 192kbps, 48kHz, stereo

The width, height, and frame rate match the Vado HD video. The other
values are just slightly higher quality than the Vado so you won't lose
too much quality in the conversion. Doing a few tests, I don't really
notice a difference in the source and converted materials.

After conversion, Sony Vegas easily reads the files and you can edit
them as expected.

Personally, I think it's pretty lame that Windows Live Movie Maker can
read these files but a higher-end program like Vegas can't. You would
think Vegas would take advantage of the same set of codecs WLMM does...
but apparently not.
