---
layout: post
title: "Pop-Under Dialogs are Killing Me"
date: 2009-10-21 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1576
tags: [web]
---
I've had to delete a few large directory trees in the last week or so
and every time I do there's trouble. Let me walk you through it.

I navigate to the folder I want to delete, click it, and hit
Shift+Delete. I don't want it to go to the Recycle Bin. Next thing I see
is this awesome dialog for the next five full minutes, possibly longer:

!["Preparing to Delete"
dialog](https://hyqi8g.bl3301.livefilestore.com/y2pfm0QvFhJ9VLs4VgSaqWNGhM3XOsz9DUgCs2yNeTlOeC2ecGu6yNtHz2dpPwstONBUrIgRmhSfsWlVMnHzN4UySkLUk45rk2X4mrlT5sCTyo/20091021deletedialog1.png?psid=1)

This lasts an interminable time and usually around the time I begin
wondering what's up, I realize: **the confirmation dialog has popped
under something else I'm working on**. It won't even be in a consistent
spot. Sometimes it's on a wholly different monitor than the "Preparing
to Delete" dialog.

!["Confirm Folder Delete"
dialog](https://hyqi8g.bl3302.livefilestore.com/y2pre8KvyNBNZmQc_mpAqSKYjNgEfWavjJbMTGjZH9DqNwg_65LLwKlrt2DJGp4EPy_z6lXTZ5A2cX7FsfkX1stig2FFrtZ14Kdle0ypevZ9Fs/20091021deletedialog2.png?psid=1)

OK, so I click "Yes" because I do want to delete the folder. I go about
my merry way. At some point in the next, oh, ten or fifteen minutes, I
notice that the progress dialog doesn't seem to have... progressed. Time
to start searching again. And what do I find if I minimize literally
everything I've got open? Another confirmation pop-under:

!["Confirm File Delete"
dialog](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2p1azPeP1h9pZyt5uTcyV4d1datUODmYElOZ0q8pjWDzdifs9UERUJcbZG7PuL2vFHpMMIiiss2Xmx0f7lwG1JUkFaKJScz0s1bUltTQcylRo/20091021deletedialog3.png?psid=1)

Honestly, I thought I'd already confirmed that I want the folder gone.
But here we are, and we don't want to see this again, so I click "Yes to
All" and hope for the best. Another five minutes or so later, things are
looking hung again... what gives? Minimize everything again. Oh, there
it is.

!["Confirm File Delete" dialog
redux](https://hyqi8g.bl3301.livefilestore.com/y2paEMexc6Mxf4MQb-y1eC-4KOJDJvvcAPrS574xBjrNTcwFMWjn3HSRTAz6tqhUYBX73q5_CvKkDnud30QQZ1JASSLrDvVZ5Yw2p_B45Y5_iw/20091021deletedialog4.png?psid=1)

Seriously? I could have sworn I clicked "Yes to All" on a nearly
identical dialog not... oh, right, five minutes ago. You must have
forgotten.

Now, I also hate when dialogs pop up and steal focus. BlackBerry Desktop
Manager does that while you're synchronizing and makes your computer
unusable because every focus-stealing dialog has so many hot keys on it
that if you're typing an email, you're bound to hit some hot key
combination that formats your BlackBerry if the dialog pops up and
steals focus.

**What about having the confirmation dialog show up in the task bar and
flash?**

That way I would be able to see something is demanding my attention
without needing to minimize everything, and if it pops up in a place I'm
not expecting, I can easily switch to it by selecting it in the task
bar.

I'm on WinXP right now at work (don't ask, I don't like it, either). Did
this get fixed in Vista or Win7? Doubting it.

