---
layout: post
title: "2008 Retrospective"
date: 2009-01-03 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1483
tags: [personal]
---
Well, Christmas is over, it's the New Year, and it's time once again to
look back and see what went on for me in the last 365 days or so.

**[January 2008](/archive/2008/01.aspx)**

I started January by [updating my multi-user iTunes instructions to
account for
Vista](/archive/2008/01/03/updated-multi-user-itunes-instructions-for-vista.aspx)
and adding some similar [multi-user instructions for
Picasa](/archive/2008/01/04/multi-user-picasa.aspx). This setup is still
working well for me today, in fact. [We signed up for Verizon
FiOS](/archive/2008/01/21/fios-signup-not-remotely-seamless.aspx) to
save a little money and get a better Internet connection. Not sure if
we're actually saving that much, but the Internet connection is pretty
cool. Now, if only they'd increase their HD on-demand offerings.
Finally, I [ended the month with Xbox
problems](/archive/2008/01/28/status-on-xbox-live-drm-and-dashboard-problems.aspx),
which is not uncommon for me.

**[February 2008](/archive/2008/02.aspx)**

Lots of interesting developments happened with Typemock Isolator in
February, particularly [the addition of debugger
integration](/archive/2008/02/06/typemock-isolator---now-with-debugging-goodness.aspx),
which is awesome. In the spirit of that, I blogged about [how to get
Isolator, NCover, and NUnit all playing nicely in
MSBuild](/archive/2008/02/07/typemock-nunit-and-ncover-together-in-msbuild.aspx) as
well as [a template for doing some quick Typemock Isolator
testing](/archive/2008/02/21/template-for-quick-typemock-testing.aspx).
I fixed an issue with [Sandcastle Help File Builder having multiple
versions of the same dependency by creating a
plugin](/archive/2008/02/12/resolve-multiple-dependency-versions-in-sandcastle-help-file-builder.aspx).

**[March 2008](/archive/2008/03.aspx)**

March saw me working a lot with Windows Workflow Foundation. I created
[a small series of articles called "Two Minute
WF"](/archive/2008/03/20/two-minute-wf.aspx) to give a high-level
overview of some of the things I found. [We went to see the Cirque du
Soleil show, "Corteo,'](/archive/2008/03/17/corteo.aspx) which is
fantastic and *you absolutely must see it*. We also [had to get some
birds pulled out of our eaves](/archive/2008/03/19/bird-exclusion.aspx)
because they were nesting.

**[April 2008](/archive/2008/04.aspx)**

We started the month by [hitting the Shrine
Circus](/archive/2008/04/07/shrine-circus-2008.aspx), which I hadn't
been to since I was a kid. I posted [a quick start for learning to use
Typemock
Isolator](/archive/2008/04/16/quick-start-for-mocking-with-typemock-isolator.aspx) and
played around with [an Isolator-based product called "Ivonna" for
testing ASP.NET
pages](/archive/2008/04/16/asp.net-testing-with-ivonna.aspx). I also
[spoke at Innotech Oregon about Unit Testing with
Typemock](/archive/2008/04/24/innotech-presentations-posted.aspx), which
was a great experience - my first conference speaking gig. I started
getting into Twitter enough to care to [optimize my Twhirl
experience](/archive/2008/04/22/getting-the-most-from-twhirl.aspx). I
figured out [how to use the Composite Web Application Block without the
whole Web Client Software
Factory](/archive/2008/04/29/using-composite-web-application-block-without-web-client-software-factory.aspx).
Our printer went out, so I started looking at new ones but really didn't
find anything. Finally, [we saw Jonathan Coulton in
concert](/archive/2008/04/26/jonathan-coulton-at-mission-st.-theater.aspx)
(and have tickets to see him again this month).

**[May 2008](/archive/2008/05.aspx)**

May began with me [spending a week in Liberty
City](/archive/2008/05/12/a-week-in-liberty-city.aspx). I love a good
week of GTA, these being so fun, relaxing, and, frankly, cheap that most
other vacations can't beat it. That said, I used the Xbox until it
pretty much killed the DVD drive, so [I had to send it in and get my
fifth Xbox 360](/archive/2008/05/15/getting-xbox-360-number-five.aspx).
I was [named a Typemock
Expert](/archive/2008/05/27/typemock-expert.aspx) (which is similar to
the Microsoft MVP program, but for Typemock) - a real honor. At the end
of May, [we lost our kitty Jack to epinephrine
reversal](/archive/2008/05/30/his-name-was-jack.aspx), which is
extremely rare in cats. We still miss him.

**[June 2008](/archive/2008/06.aspx)**

In June I finally stepped into the now and stopped carrying a separate
cell phone and PDA, [opting for the BlackBerry
Curve](/archive/2008/06/05/setting-up-a-blackberry-for-personal-use.aspx).
I still really like it, though I still have weird issues sometimes with
the desktop synchronization software - something I never had a problem
with when I was using a Windows Mobile PDA. I really started feelilng
some slowdown issues on my work computer so I did a little research on
[the performance impact of full-disk
encryption](/archive/2008/06/10/performance-impact-of-full-disk-encryption.aspx).
I'm all for security, but I still think we need to have some faster
hardware to compensate for the software overhead we're required to keep.
I showed you [how to build a dynamic dependency list for an FxCop
project using
MSBuild](/archive/2008/06/19/dynamic-fxcop-dependency-list-using-msbuild.aspx).
Finally, [*Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog* was
announced](/archive/2008/06/30/dr.-horribles-sing-along-blog.aspx), and
has turned out to be a web phenomenon. If you haven't seen it, you owe
it to yourself to take the time to go watch. I promise, you won't be
disappointed.

**[July 2008](/archive/2008/07.aspx)**

In July I figured out [how to fix the odd sign-in delay to Xbox Live
that I was seeing - reboot the
router](/archive/2008/07/02/xbox-360-sign-in-delay-fix.aspx). This is a
trick that I still use... in fact, I had to do it last night. [We saw
*Wall-E*](/archive/2008/07/02/wall-e.aspx), which is my favorite Pixar
movie so far. I've seen it a couple of times since and have it on
Blu-ray. Love it. We did [the Independence Day fireworks shoot in Walla
Walla, WA](/archive/2008/07/06/walla-walla-fireworks-2008.aspx), which
was, as always, hard work but lots of fun at the same time. Plus, it's
always good to see [my friend Greg](http://www.greghughes.net) and the
rest of the fireworks gang. Once a year is just not enough. That said, I
think we'll be doing something a little closer to home this year if we
can - Washington shows don't count toward my pyro license renewal, and
driving that far is really hard. (I'm not a big "car trip" person.) [We
got two new kittens, Kai and
Stanley](/archive/2008/07/06/welcome-kai-and-stanley.aspx), and they
have turned out to be real wild men. [I moved my CR\_SortLines and
CR\_JoinLines plugins into the DXCore Community Plugins
project](/archive/2008/07/10/cr_joinlines-and-cr_sortlines-join-dxcore-community-plugins.aspx).
I also [released CR\_Documentor 2.0 which included not only a Sandcastle
preview style but also was my first release with CR\_Documentor as open
source](/archive/2008/07/11/cr_documentor-2.0.0.0-released-now-with-sandcastle-preview-and-open-source.aspx).
Since then, I've released a few bug fix builds and made the internal
rendering engine much stronger, all with help from the community. (I'm
always looking for contributors, so [come on by and help if you
can](http://cr-documentor.googlecode.com)!) Finally, [I turned
32](/archive/2008/07/29/birthday-32.aspx). I don't feel 32, but, well, I
guess that's just how it is.

**[August 2008](/archive/2008/08.aspx)**

I started the month with [a little epiphany about thinking in the
abstract](/archive/2008/08/11/learning-to-think-in-the-abstract.aspx). I
[tried upgrading my blog to Subtext 2.0 and
failed](/archive/2008/08/16/failed-to-upgrade-to-subtext-2.0.aspx) due
to some permissions issues (which I believe have since been rectified...
but I'm a little scared to try again since the previous attempt brought
my site down for a couple of days). While I was working with it, though,
[I slimmed down my
database](/archive/2008/08/18/slimming-down-your-subtext-database.aspx),
which had grown a lot and was bumping up against my alllocated size
limit. Some things happened in my little circles of the tech world -
[Typemock Isolator announced an open source
license](/archive/2008/08/18/typemock-isolator-5.0-released-open-source-licensing-available.aspx)
and [.NET Reflector got transferred to Red
Gate](/archive/2008/08/20/lutz-roeder-hands-off-reflector-to-red-gate.aspx).
[I picked up a Windows Home
Server](/archive/2008/08/25/windows-home-server-first-impressions.aspx)
(which I still love) and [I completed Grand Theft Auto 4
100%](/archive/2008/08/27/gta4-100.aspx). Finally, [I went on a team
building field trip with the folks in my group and we had a
blast](/archive/2008/08/29/downtown-portland-team-building-scavenger-hunt.aspx).
I have to say, the group I'm in is a fantastic team and I'm really proud
to be with them. Great manager who really cares for the group, great
team who comes together and really takes care of business. Best of the
best.

**[September 2008](/archive/2008/09.aspx)**

In September, [besides my car getting
hit](/archive/2008/09/19/watch-those-one-way-grids.aspx), the big
happening of note was that [I finally solved my media server
problem](/archive/2008/09/30/overview-of-my-media-center-solution.aspx)
- all of my DVDs are now stored on a central server in VIDEO\_TS format
(so they're not just the movies - they're also disk backups) and can be
played from a home theater PC in the living room. This was a lot of
research and effort, but it turned out really well and has been really
super cool to use. I can finally access my movies in the same way I can
access every CD I have through my iPod and iTunes. (I have since found
little issues that I've either solved or am working on solving, like
some [minor stuff with Vista not sleeping
properly](/archive/2008/10/31/fixing-windows-vista-media-center-sleep-problems.aspx)
and the fact that [my TV runs at 1366 x 768 but the HTPC outputs at 1280
x
768](http://paraesthesia.com/archive/2008/09/29/dell-studio-hybrid-media-center-installed.aspx).)

**[October 2008](/archive/2008/10.aspx)**

We started out by [having some barkdust blown into our flower
beds](/archive/2008/10/03/barkdust-put-in-yesterday.aspx), something
long overdue. We then [spent a week in Disneyland and
Legoland](/archive/2008/10/21/disneylandlegoland-vacation.aspx), which
was simply amazing and tiring and fun all at the same time - a great
vacation. I [put a stick through my original Rock Band
drums](/archive/2008/10/29/broke-rock-band-drums.aspx) (and later
ordered the Ion Drum Rocker kit, which has been so cool - [I posted a
comparison of the Ion drums vs. original Rock Band vs. Guitar Hero World
Tour](/archive/2008/11/07/drum-comparison-ion-vs.-rock-band-vs.-guitar-hero-world.aspx)
and the Ion drums are by far the superior choice). Oh, and we had [237
trick-or-treaters this
year](/archive/2008/11/03/237-trick-or-treaters.aspx), a record. On a
technical note, I posted [some FxCop rule
recommendations](/archive/2008/10/30/fxcop-rule-recommendations.aspx)
based on what works for me.

**[November 2008](/archive/2008/11.aspx)**

After [having participated in 2007 in the "Give One, Get One"
program](/archive/2007/11/14/bought-my-xo-laptop.aspx) for the XO "One
Laptop Per Child" program, I hadn't done much with my XO laptop so [I
got the gumption up to get Ubuntu running on
it](/archive/2008/11/14/running-ubuntu-on-the-xo-laptop.aspx). I showed
you [how to find tracks missing artwork in
iTunes](/archive/2008/11/25/find-tracks-missing-artwork-in-itunes.aspx),
and I also showed you [how to read WCF configuration from an alternate
location](/archive/2008/11/26/reading-wcf-configuration-from-a-custom-location.aspx).

**[December 2008](/archive/2008/12.aspx)**

Slightly late to the game, I realilzed [what it takes to force ASP.NET
3.5 on IIS6](/archive/2008/12/01/forcing-asp.net-3.5-on-iis6.aspx). I
posted [a database maintenance page for Subtext to make trimming down
the database size a little
easier](/archive/2008/12/05/easier-subtext-1.9.5b-database-maintenance.aspx).
(Remember the work I did in August?) I started [running into a few
problems with companies that think "Release Early, Release
Often"](/archive/2008/12/08/the-problem-with-release-early-release-often.aspx)
also naturally implies that the external customer can take every upgrade
that comes along without any cost. I had a little [fun with the Amazon
Universal Wish List
button](/archive/2008/12/08/amazon-universal-wish-list-button.aspx). I
got [my first 100% on drums in Rock
Band](/archive/2008/12/16/first-100-on-drums.aspx). I talked a bit about
[storing configuration settings behind a WCF
service](/archive/2008/12/16/storing-configuration-settings-behind-a-wcf-service.aspx).
The year ended with [a severe case of cabin
fever](/archive/2008/12/22/cabin-fever.aspx) after having been snowed in
for several days.

Christmas was actually sort of spread out because of the snow (we're
still seeing presents we ordered for people trickling in via mail and
UPS) and we weren't able to get together with people because everyone
was trapped, so the whole holiday felt a little weird. We still had a
lot of fun and were able to see folks over the course of the following
week, and everything was cleared up by New Years, when we went to a fun
non-party party at our friends Jason and Tracy's place.

As for the upcoming year, I suppose I have a few resolutions. I would
like to try to blog more. Both more technical and more personal stuff,
since I have a mixed audience (though I realize that sort of means "jack
of all trades, master of none"). I'd like to get together more often
with our friends - Angela and K, Jason and Tracy, Jason and Liz - and
see some of the folks I don't see nearly often enough a bit more often.
I'd like to get better on the Rock Band drums, which sounds sort of
dumb, but I didn't go to band in high school so this is sort of my
chance to learn to play an instrument, albeit a "fake instrument," and
see if it might be worth investing in getting the real electronic drum
brain for my Ion kit. I'd like to take more time to do some of the
hobbies I've let go - I used to draw, I used to do more art projects, I
used to read more... it'd be nice to get back to some of that.

Anyway, 2008 was pretty good. 2009 looks to be interesting not only on a
personal level, but on a global one - Obama's been elected, the
economy's in the crapper, and we're generally on the cusp of some major
change. It'll be an interesting time to see how it plays out. It makes
me wonder if folks during the 60's felt this same sort of feeling in the
air of things changing and major events happening.

