---
layout: post
title: "Technology Trust Issues"
date: 2010-09-07 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1664
tags: [personal,gaming]
---
I know technology is fallible and I know my standards are probably far
too high for things, but I find that once a technology or gadget has
shown its imperfections to me by way of failing or misbehaving, I have a
really difficult time being excited about it or trusting it again.

For quite some time I was absolutely addicted to playing drums on Rock
Band. I've always thought I would be a decent drummer and while I know
it's not "real drums" it's fun and fulfills that tiny dream. I bought
the Ion Drum Rocker kit and totally rocked out. Until, of course, I
found a problem during practice mode where [hitting the yellow cymbal
changes the tempo on
you](http://www.rockband.com/forums/showthread.php?t=143041). After
switching out the drum kit controller like three times with Ion Support
(which, by the way, *sucks*), it turns out the problem is
software-based. I also started noticing things start randomly
misbehaving, like the kick pedal not registering (or going off by
itself), hits not registering on the pads... and that turns out to be a
funky combination of static buildup, needing to unplug the drum
controller for a few seconds, and bad luck.

During the course of solving that problem, I honestly lost my feel for
it. I don't play nearly as often now, and it's because I don't trust the
technology to behave. To do what it's intended to do. Playing it has
become a bit less fun and a bit more worry and stress over why it's not
working.

Last week I got a Droid X. Love it. Had a bit of a weird issue where the
speakers suddenly lost volume but fixed it by a simple power cycle. Then
we went to the Oregon Coast Aquarium this past weekend and I noticed
that there's a flaw with the camera CMOS censor such that in darker
shots there's a noticeable magenta spot, like there's something on the
lens. Suddenly, I'm slightly less trusting, and slightly less enamored
with it. I still like the phone, but I find I'm not tinkering with it or
messing around with it as much since I saw that.

I stopped at the Verizon store and I'm getting a replacement unit, so it
should be fixed when the new unit arrives in a day or two. It's just...
I hope I don't lose my passion for it. My enthusiasm. It's shown me
weakness, fallibility, and it's going to take some time for me to trust
it again.

I am, admittedly, a perfectionist. I hold myself to very high standards
and "it works" is generally not good enough. I'm thinking, though, that
even if "it works" is good enough, there's another question to be asked:
is it trustworthy? Can I trust a product or service not to break in the
middle of an operation? Even if a product isn't super-feature-rich, if
it does one thing and one thing *really well*, I'm fine with that.

**Reliability is high on my priority list. Is it high on yours?**
