---
layout: post
title: "Paternity Leave Nearly Done"
date: 2010-12-29 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1687
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
It's been a little over a month [since Phoenix was
born](/archive/2010/12/01/phoenix-aeralynn-illig.aspx) and now that
December is coming to a close, with it comes the end of my paternity
leave. I'm not really sure that I'm ready to go back to work, though.
The first two weeks she was here were basically a whirlwind of people
showing up, work getting done around the house, and general "settling."
The two weeks after that have been spent just trying to get a decent
schedule down and learning how to manage some of the changes that come
with a baby. I just now feel like we might sort of have a handle on
things but I don't really get to verify that before getting back to
work. Hence, not quite ready.

To [borrow a line from Scott Hanselman, who borrowed it from his friend
Eli](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/ADayInTheZenzoMischiefAndMayhem1.aspx),
"Kids go through three phases: Plant, Pet, Person." Phoenix is currently
in "plant" phase, where we provide sustenance and she sits for long
periods of time. She's not interactive at all, has no motor control, and
doesn't even smile yet. In a way, and I know this sounds bad/negative, I
think "plant" phase should actually be "parasite" phase. [Per
Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Parasite), a parasitic
relationship is "where one organism, the parasite, benefits at the
expense of the host." Right now, despite the "It's so rewarding!"
declarations to me from existing parents, there's really no "reward,"
just work. There's not even "unconditional love" coming from her, just
"need," which is not the same thing at all.

I think I'll have a more positive attitude and be less generally
depressed once there is some sort of basic interaction possible. In my
experience, women love babies. Like, *baby* babies. Men like older
children that are mobile and more interactive. (Yes, that's a blanket
generalized statement and isn't true for everyone, but this is what I've
seen.) I find that to be true here, too, where my wife and her friends
love how tiny Phoenix is and so forth, but I find myself strongly
looking forward to a day when she can smile and I know it's not just a
gas bubble.

A friend of mine told me my perspective would shift and I'd learn to
love everything, including the pain. I'm a month in and I don't see that
happening. I might, in the long run, forget how painful this stage is
(and I think most parents do, which is why you don't hear about it much)
and possibly even look back and laugh someday, but I don't think I'll
ever *enjoy* the painful moments. They'll just exist in time and be
something to bear through. "It'll get better!," something people
(particularly grandparents) love to throw out there, *doesn't really
help me right now*, does it? "[Sorry doesn't put the Triscuit crackers
in my stomach, now, does it,
Carl?](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ROtxme_VN2s)"

I don't think it helped that for the first two weeks we were home Jenn
was pretty much on bed rest due to her C-section, which means I went to
the hospital with my wife and came back with two babies to care for.
Also during my leave, several home ownership items came up like a
leaking toilet, a clogged kitchen exhaust fan, and so on. A perfect
storm of "more work for me" that amounts to barely keeping my head above
water. Oh, and the usual (and, now additional) stress of the holiday
season. I'm sure all of that pretty well tanked my mood and it's yet to
snap back.

It's important to note that this all has no bearing on Phoenix herself.
She's a wonderful little girl and I love her dearly. I'm glad she's here
and I wouldn't have it any other way. There's just a... *severe
adjustment period* that has me down. Again, [I don't think expectations
were properly
set](http://www.ted.com/talks/rufus_griscom_alisa_volkman_let_s_talk_parenting_taboos.html).

I could go on, but that won't really help anything, either. Suffice to
say, I am looking forward to the joy of parenting, whenever it decides
to arrive. In the meantime, I'm headed back to work next week and I will
be figuring out how to make all this work together.

