---
layout: post
title: "My Problem Is I Can't Leave Well Enough Alone"
date: 2010-05-27 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1645
tags: [personal]
---
It's not my *only* problem by any means, but it's a big one.

I'm a perfectionist. I admit that. I'm also an engineer, the side effect
of which means I'm always trying to make stuff better in some
unquantifiable fashion.

I've blogged before about [my media center
setup](/archive/2008/09/30/overview-of-my-media-center-solution.aspx)
and [some of the
issues](/archive/2010/02/05/working-through-perfectdisk-for-whs-issues.aspx)
I've run into. I've also wondered aloud at [how non-geeks
survive](/archive/2010/01/06/how-do-non-geeks-survive.aspx) and all the
fiddly shit that comes along with getting all of these devices and
things to work together.

Recently I've moved my DVD library off my Windows Home Server [onto a
Synology DS1010+](/archive/2010/05/20/moving-to-a-synology-ds1010.aspx).
In doing that, I think I figured out some of the reliability issues my
home server was running into, so I almost have the system nice and
stable.

In the back of my mind, there's a voice. It's asking me, "*What can you
do to make it better?*"

I know, consciously, that I need to stop messing around with the damn
thing because it's working perfectly. Subconsciously, though, is the
constant drive to *enhance*.

*How can I make the network faster?* This would involve getting gigabit
adapters for devices that don't have them, fiddling with jumbo frames,
setting up dual-band wireless-N for the devices that need it... but the
network, while it could be improved, is at least reasonably stable right
now and doing some of those things is just going to upset equilibrium.

*How can I improve the media center front end PC?* I think it's
underpowered and some of the drivers are out of date because the devices
don't all have recent 64-bit drivers... but they do have 32-bit drivers,
so do I step the OS down to 32-bit, get a different system, or...? But
it does what it needs to just fine - play DVD images off the network.

*How can I make the home theater easier to use?* I have a reasonable
remote control right now and it's not that bad to switch on the various
components, but it'd be nice to have something like a [Harmony
One](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002RL875A?tag=mhsvortex) to round out the
functionality. Of course, that involves the setup and maintenance of an
additional piece of equipment, plus training costs (if you know what I
mean).

...and so on. Do any of these things really need to be dealt with? No.
Does something inside me drive me to want to? Yes. And, of course, doing
so will create work - work that, once I'm in the thick of it, I really
wish I didn't have to do. Like I'm punishing myself for something.

I really need to learn to just leave well enough alone.

