---
layout: post
title: "The Great Receiver Install of '10"
date: 2010-04-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1628
tags: [media]
---
This weekend I took Saturday from about 11:00a to 7:00p installing and
configuring my new [Onkyo TX-NR3007
receiver](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002M78EPM?tag=mhsvortex).

[![Onkyo
TX-NR3007](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/41AwdkFAREL._SL500_AA300_CR0,80,300,140.jpg "Onkyo TX-NR3007")](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002M78EPM?tag=mhsvortex)

This replaces a Yamaha receiver I had from probably 10 years ago from
[The Good Guys](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Good_Guys!) (a
now-defunct consumer electronics store that used to be everywhere
locally). The primary driver for the upgrade is that I have a [Bose
Acoustimass 16](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000GFV008?tag=mhsvortex)
speaker kit that will support 6.1 surround, but the Yamaha receiver only
has 5.1 outputs... so there's a speaker that's been sitting idle in a
cabinet for a few years, yearning to break free. This Onkyo supports 9.2
surround, so plenty of room to upgrade.

I compared several options before settling on this particular receiver.
My initial criteria:

-   Between \$750 and \$2000.
-   At least four HDMI inputs.
-   At least 6.1 surround support.

I started looking at models from Denon, Onkyo, Yamaha, and Pioneer, but
quickly came down to Denon vs. Onkyo. From there, I compared:

-   Denon AVR-2310CI
-   Denon AVR-3310CI
-   Denon AVR-4310CI
-   Denon AVR-4810CI
-   Onkyo TX-NR807
-   Onkyo TX-NR1007
-   Onkyo TX-NR3007
-   Onkyo TX-NR5007

All of those have at least 5 HDMI inputs and 7.1 surround, and all are
in the price range.

I ruled out the AVR-2310CI based on the fact it was the only one that
didn't have network connectivity and all the others did - I have a lot
of music on my Windows Home Server and I want to have access to it if
possible. I ruled out the TX-NR807 based on the very few component
inputs, lack of discrete channel inputs, and no USB port. So the
lower-end items in the list got ruled out.

I then started looking at the expandability of the speakers and ruled
out the AVR-3310CI and AVR-4310CI. Both of those are 7.1 outputs while
the remaining Onkyo units have 9.2 surround and the AVR-4810CI has 9.3.

After that, it was a bang-for-the-buck comparison. The remaining
contenders price out like this (roughly):

-   Denon AVR-4810CI: \$3000
-   Onkyo TX-NR1007: \$1200
-   Onkyo TX-NR3007: \$1500
-   Onkyo TX-NR5007: \$1900

Again, that's rough pricing - you can find sales and such that'll save
you a couple hundred, give or take, but that's around the average price
I saw.

The Denon, then, was well beyond the pricing of the Onkyos. Like,
double. I can't justify that much price difference, especially given my
original budget constraints, even if the brand is potentially more
reliable.

Of the remaining Onkyos, I went middle-of-the-road. The TX-NR3007 has a
USB flash drive port, which the 1007 does not, and has one more HDMI
input than the 1007, for a total of seven HDMI inputs. The TX-NR3007 has
one fewer HDMI input and one fewer optical audio input than the 5007,
and the 3007 has a 24-bit DAC while the 5007 has a 32-bit DAC... but I
couldn't justify the additional price for those features.

So: the Onkyo TX-NR3007. I got a screamin' deal on it through some
friends (big thanks to them) which got me the receiver and the
three-year warranty for \$1400. (Yes, I got the warranty. I've had the
warranty save me on electronics purchases twice now, so pretty much
anything over \$750 I'll consider getting it. Did [you know that
geomagnetic forces affect large-tube
TVs?](/archive/2005/02/02/geomagnetic-television-distortion.aspx))

Anyway, thanks to [Alex Scoble](http://friendfeed.com/itblogger) for
helping me figure some of the receiver stuff out. That guy is an *A/V
king*.

![The Wiring Rat's
Nest](https://hyqi8g.bl3301.livefilestore.com/y2poKh9AhUET-JPI-APbh3uV8z_93jVo2uazNbGXLfkIl5-0K_sGutjn4p1HKLwqcmD3AXEgMBvm7tZV6asbeodWJwmil6iq97u39dV3VAJZEM/20100412receiverinstall01.jpg?psid=1 "The Wiring Rat's Nest")Since
I was able to use HDMI to connect audio and video at the same time (my
old Yamaha receiver only had audio inputs), I had to tear out pretty
much all the wiring I had so I could rewire using HDMI. That's actually
what took me all day - the rewiring effort. I'm pretty anal about my
cable management, so when all is said and done, it's nicely bundled
using velcro ties and cable wraps. But that also means it's a pain in
the ass to take apart if you're redoing the whole system, so... much
un-velcro-ing ensued. This picture to the right is of some of the wiring
as I was in the process of ripping things out. Painful.

I also found that the receiver is 18.25" deep and my entertainment
center is 18.5" deep, so there wasn't enough room to plug anything into
the back of it. That meant "cut a flap in the back of the entertainment
center so you can plug stuff in." That wasn't too bad, but I wanted to
do a nice job so it was time consuming and involved a couple of X-Acto
knife blades. (The back of the entertainment center is a thick
paperboard, not wood.)

After slotting that 65-pound beast into place, it was a matter of
connecting everything up. There are a lot of inputs on the back, so this
was mostly just trying to figure out which one(s) to use. Luckily, it
turns out they're all totally assignable, so you can say "The
'CABLE/SATELLITE' input really corresponds to HDMI input 3."

![So many connections, so little
time...](https://hyqi8g.bl3301.livefilestore.com/y2pzhrGydhY0y2IumyD5Vtwu3J82y6lRqtWDfEGkLFGZgdTUyb-NG0LtmkveEQJ0MXvwfLjsgsPh3B_1RxM_sQVceCXWtlQcKi6_EfqyngxUlA/20100412receiverinstall02a.jpg?psid=1 "So many connections, so little time...")

And the final step, before strapping all the wires back down, was to
test out the various components and make sure everything was connected
correctly. I had a minor issue in that the HDMI inputs are numbered
right-to-left instead of left-to-right, so what I thought I had plugged
into HDMI input 1 was actually in HDMI input 7 (and so forth), but that
was easy enough to straighten out. Chalk it up to me not paying close
enough attention.

I got all the cables strapped down, pushed it all into place, ran [the
Audyssey MultEQ auto configuration
utility](http://www.audyssey.com/technology/multeq.html), and watched me
a little TV!

![The Onkyo TX-NR3007 in the entertainment
center.](https://hyqi8g.bl3301.livefilestore.com/y2pcdYREMPI3fPrXT491pYtHsSYuCcFofcx4vjZkZ6UTAxpfFHMnFNzdEQGLLZTlqybTEGRLnWC3q5JeIr9ZWFJ2Iat2pXgv-BomclAGp0Fr3c/20100412receiverinstall03.jpg?psid=1 "The Onkyo TX-NR3007 in the entertainment center.")

We also tried out some of the cool internet features, like listening to
[vTuner radio (free through this receiver)](http://www.vtuner.com/) from
around the world and logging into [Pandora](http://www.pandora.com) and
listening/rating tracks right through the receiver. My sister and
brother-in-law are living in Malta right now so we listened to some
Maltese radio just to hear what they're listening to. Very neat! It also
detected my Asset UPnP installation on my Windows Home Server and I was
able to browse and play my music library right through the receiver. (I
did have to switch Asset to stream using WAV rather than LPCM, but WAV
seems to work for both PS3 and the receiver.)

In playing some games and watching some movies, I found that my previous
configuration had the rear surround turned down way too low and things
were just not balanced as well as I thought. The surround after the
Audyssey MultEQ configuration is much richer and more defined. I did
notice that I had to mess with some of the "listening modes" to find the
best one for standard stereo TV content and stereo streaming Netflix
over Xbox 360, but the "THX Games" mode for Xbox 360/Dolby Digital games
is really sweet and had [*Left4Dead
2*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002BRZ852?tag=mhsvortex) sounding
phenomenal.

I was surprised at how cool the receiver runs. I figured this behemoth
would run hot, but it's actually not too bad. Warm, but not hot. I'm
sure the big ol' flap I cut for the cables in the back of the cabinet
helps to keep the air circulating. Might have to consider doing that for
the PS3, which sounds like a damn jet engine all the time it runs so
hot.

Another surprising and cool detail was that my media center PC (running
Windows 7) detected the new "display" as "TXNR3007" - it knew the kind
of "monitor" it was hooked to. It also knew that the display "supported"
several different HD-compatible resolutions, while connecting to the TV
all it registered support for was 1920x1080. This allowed me to turn
down the resolution a tad (I don't watch full HD video through the media
center) and hopefully save some video processing cycles.

Only negatives I've found to the new receiver:

**The remote control situation.** The remote it comes with doesn't have
enough buttons to replace my current universal and support all of the
things my TV, cable box, etc. does... but the receiver remote also has
*two separate power buttons* - one for "on" and one for "standby" - and
my current universal remote only has one power button that can either
turn the receiver on or off, but not both. The receiver remote also has
a ton of stuff that I won't be messing with once I've got everything set
up to my liking, and Jenn's got the current universal mastered... so I
may just have to use the "learning" capacity on the current universal
and teach some button to be the "off" for the receiver. Kind of kludgy,
but them's the breaks.

**The "click."**It has this "click" noise that it makes as it switches
from stereo to surround inputs. For example, if you're watching HDTV and
you're crusing along great in Dolby Digital, then the local affiliate
jams in a standard-def stereo signal, the receiver goes "click" as it
switches from processing surround to stereo... then "click" again as it
switches back. Not a deal breaker, but I kind of wish it didn't do that.

**Video processing warmup time.** Turn on the TV, turn on the receiver,
switch to the Xbox input, and turn on the Xbox. You hear the sound of
the Xbox starting up, but the video signal takes three-to-five seconds
to show up as all the internal signal switching goes on and everything
filters through to the TV. Again, not a huge deal, but it was kind of
scary the first couple of times as I was caught thinking, "Whooooooa...
where the hell is my video?" That said, my TV ([Samsung
LN52A750](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B001418WF4?tag=mhsvortex)) is not
entirely blame-free - when a single input switches resolutions, it takes
a couple of seconds to reacquire the signal for display. Found that out
while messing with my media center PC resolutions.

None of those negatives is a huge issue, but something to be aware of. I
don't think I'd make a different purchasing decision based on them. I
like the flexibility, the power, and the price of the unit, so no
regrets. As things unfold, like if I find new or interesting things with
it, I'll keep the blog posted.

(I'm actually thinking of starting a wiki site dedicated to my home
theater/media center setup - not really "community contribution" like a
usual wiki so much as my notes on things I discover, how I set things
up, etc., so interested folks can learn from my mistakes. Does that
sound interesting to people?)

**UPDATE 4/27/2010**: I've posted about [what I've learned two weeks in
with this
receiver](/archive/2010/04/27/two-weeks-in-with-the-onkyo-tx-nr3007.aspx).

