---
layout: post
title: "24 Hours with Kindle"
date: 2011-02-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1694
tags: [Media,General Ramblings]
---
[![Amazon Kindle - 6" - Wi-Fi and
3G](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/41NbGMoQL5L._SL160.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002FQJT3Q?tag=mhsvortex)I
bought [an Amazon
Kindle](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002FQJT3Q?tag=mhsvortex) and it
arrived yesterday. I got the 6" model with Wi-Fi and 3G on it. So far, I
generally like it, but figured I would share my thoughts so far, having
about a day with it.

**Pushing books from the Amazon web site to the Kindle is not super
intuitive.** I think this is partly my fault. I thought I'd be slick and
try to "pre-load" a few things on there using the Kindle app on Android
so when I got the Kindle, I'd have some stuff to get reading. After
unboxing the thing and setting it up, I looked and... couldn't find my
stuff. It was in this "Archived Items" area on the Kindle, but (as a new
user) what the hell is that supposed to mean? Doesn't look archived on
my phone.

After a bit of poking around I did figure out how to download them onto
the Kindle, but I went in thinking all this stuff would be automatically
synchronized.

**The Kindle app for Android comes with books not in the Kindle store.**
When you first get the Kindle app for Android you get two or three free
books ([*Pride and
Prejudice*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000JMLFLW?tag=mhsvortex),
[*Aesop's Fables*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002RKRJFK?tag=mhsvortex),
and [*Treasure
Island*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000JML7EC?tag=mhsvortex), if I
remember right). Thing is, while it's the same content as the ones on
the Kindle store, they're not actually connected to your account or the
Kindle store, so when you actually get a Kindle, those books aren't on
there. Let me tell you how long it took me to figure that one out. I
eventually deleted the local ones and "purchased" the free books out of
the Kindle store so now I can keep everything in sync, but this
definitely contributed to my confusion over how to get things onto the
Kindle.

**The screen is beautiful.** I mean, truly crisp, like a printed page.
When you get the Kindle, there's a little diagram on the screen showing
how to plug it in and start the battery charging. I sat for a good
couple of minutes trying to figure out how to peel that sticker off when
I realized *it's an image on the screen, not a sticker*. Yeah, it's that
clear. Of the reading I've done on it, it's nice and easy on the eyes.
And when you turn the Kindle off, a classic book cover or portrait of an
author comes up on the screen and stays there, and they're all gorgeous
looking.

**Getting your own files onto the Kindle is confusing.** They talk about
how to get your own books or documents onto the Kindle, but the way it's
written is kind of confusing. You get an email address with your Kindle
(like "mykindle@kindle.com" and they tell you that you can send
documents to that address and they'll show up on your Kindle, except
there's some sort of charge... unless you send to
"mykindle@**free**.kindle.com" in which case there's no charge but
there's some sort of manual work involved. Alternatively, you can
connect the Kindle to your computer through USB and drop files into a
"documents" folder on the Kindle (which appears like a drive on the
computer)... but can you create folders inside the "documents" folder to
separate your purchased content from personal content or not? I finally
figured it out and have used [Calibre](http://www.calibre-ebook.com/) to
convert a couple of [Cory Doctorow](http://www.craphound.com) books and
transfer them to my Kindle, but it wasn't the simplest thing. I can't
see non-tech people getting the most out of that functionality, or maybe
they just suck it up and eat the costs.

**Pricing on Kindle books is odd.** Sometimes they're really
competitive, like [*The Hunger
Games*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002MQYOFW?tag=mhsvortex) being only
\$5 on Kindle, but \$9 in paperback - Kindle version's about half price.
Other times, you wonder about the cost, like [*Catching
Fire*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B003O86FMW?tag=mhsvortex) (the sequel to
The Hunger Games) being \$8.52 on Kindle but \$8.97 in hardcover - the
electronic version costs only \$0.45 less than a hardcover physical
book? One would think if I'm not taking up the resources of the printing
process, the savings could be passed along to me.

**The organization of books on Kindle is confusing and kind of
annoying.** When you first get your Kindle, all the books show up right
on the home screen. If you only have like three books, that's not a big
deal, but out of the box you've got two dictionaries and the Kindle User
Guide listed. I don't need to look at that stuff every time I fire up
the Kindle.

Fortunately, they have the notion of "collections." A collection is sort
of like a "tag" or a "folder" you can put your books in. You create a
collection, then you add books to that collection. You can add a book
into multiple collections, too - so if you have, say, a collection
called "Science Fiction" and a collection called "Classics," you could
put [*The Time
Machine*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002RKTH14?tag=mhsvortex) in both
collections. You can [read more about collections in the Kindle User
Guide](http://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html/ref=help_search_T1_1-1?ie=UTF8&nodeId=200505560&qid=1296674071&sr=1-1).

![A Kindle home screen organized in
collections.](https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/G/01/00/00/08/32/08/97/832089790.jpg)

There are three problems with collections.

**Collection Problem 1: If a book is in a collection, you can't also pin
it to your home screen.** That is, once you've got things organized into
collections, you generally show your home screen organized by
collections so, you know, you can see your organization in action.
(Alternatively, if you sort your home screen by, say, author, you see
every book listed right on the home screen and no collections at all.
Sort of defeats the purpose of collections. Unfortunately, once you put
a book into a collection and you sort your home screen by collections,
the only books that appear on the home screen are the ones not in
collections. You can't have a book in a collection and say "pin this to
the home screen because I'm reading it right now." Granted, you can
create a "Current Reading" collection and just use that, but that's sort
of a hack, you know?

**Collection Problem 2: Collections are always sorted by "most recently
updated," not by collection name.** This is the most frustrating bit of
collections. You set all of your collections up, then sort your home
screen by collection and they appear not in alphabetical order, but in
descending order from most to least recently updated. (By "updated," I
mean either you read a book in that collection or you added/removed an
item in the collection.) [There's a blog article talking about a
workaround for
this](http://kindleworld.blogspot.com/2011/01/guide-to-kindle-collections-feature.html),
but this, too, is a hack. One would think someone would have said, "Hey,
you know what? Why don't we separate the 'grouping' concept (collection,
title, author) from the 'sorting' concept (alphabetical, date) so people
can see things they way they want?" I guess not.

**Collection Problem 3: Collections are device-specific.** I might go
through and totally organize my library on my Kindle, but when I open
the Android app it doesn't support collections, so I don't see that. If
I were to get another Kindle and connect it to my account, I wouldn't
even have the collections there unless I did this process of downloading
all the books to the Kindle and then adding the collection from the
"Archived Items" folder. (See the ["To import a collection from another
Kindle" section in the user
guide](http://www.amazon.com/gp/help/customer/display.html/ref=help_search_T1_1-1?ie=UTF8&nodeId=200505560&qid=1296674071&sr=1-1).)

Aside from this stuff, I'm enjoying my Kindle so far. I'm planning on
taking it to Australia with me at the end of the month, so that should
really be the true test of how I like it.

