---
layout: post
title: "Open Letter to the Stop Light Idler"
date: 2011-04-04 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1707
tags: [Traffic]
---
Dear Stop Light Idler:

I do not understand why you think it's good to stop six car lengths back
from the stop light and idle slowly forward, occasionally tapping the
brakes, until you get to the actual stop line. I'm writing you today to
ask your help so I can understand.

Do you feel you're somehow being safer? That actually stopping at the
line is not quite as safe as stopping 25m before the line?

Or is it that you don't trust your brakes? I might - *might* - actually
understand this one, since you do tap them several times during your
idle-up-to-the-line, almost like you have to verify they're still
working; that, yes, the brakes will, in fact, continue to stop the car.

Maybe it's that you're trying to get some sort of "running start" at the
light when it signals you to go. You know, so you can "beat" the car in
the other lane off the line? Is that it? The drag racer in you?

Honestly, I'm at a loss. From back here, behind you, watching you
inch-forward-and-stop, inch-forward-and-stop, inch-forward-and-stop...
from back here, it just looks like you're not paying attention. It also
looks like you have no consideration for the line of cars behind you who
would like to just sit at the signal and wait for it to change rather
than constantly trying to keep up with your inching. Because you know
that if the rest of the line doesn't inch up with you, that the one
driver who doesn't move forward looks like a big douche for being the
guy who's got six car lengths in front of him and isn't moving up.

You probably also don't realize that some traffic signals are timed, but
some are magnetically-sensitive. If you don't actually get your car into
that little box up there by the stop line, the signal won't change. Or
maybe you do, and that's part of your daily plan to piss off the other
drivers behind you.

Can you explain why you're doing this? Is there even a reason? (If there
is, are you sure it's a good one?) Because, honestly, when I'm behind
you, you ride my road rage nerve. If someone - and I'm *not saying me*,
but *someone* - pulled you out of the car and punched you in the throat,
I might not mind so much. Just sayin'.

**Please, I implore you, stop being a traffic asshole. Just pull up to
the damn light (or a reasonable distance behind the next car in front of
you) and stop.** No need to inch. No need to tap the brakes. Just hang
out. Be zen about it.

Love,

Travis

