---
layout: post
title: "Fixing Baseboards"
date: 2011-03-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1706
tags: [home]
---
Had a bit of a home improvement weekend.

We have these water fountains for the cats - one upstairs, one
downstairs. We noticed that the one upstairs was getting filled a lot
more often over the course of a week than it had been and figured it was
just that the cats were more thirsty or something. No, turns out the
fountain was leaking.

The short version is that the carpet was a bit wet and everything was
generally OK except for the baseboards near the fountain, which had
expanded (yay, pressboard!) and were basically water damaged so we had
to replace them.

If you have to replace your baseboards in your house, just assume that
Home Depot and Lowes will not have the exact type you have installed.
They just won't. I don't care if you bought it there last week, that
trim is now out of style and you'll get something *really close* to what
you had, but it won't be exact. This will cause you to have to replace a
bigger section than you really wanted to because they have to match. If
you are unlucky, this means the entire room. (We were lucky and only had
to replace a small corner by the door.)

Over the course of last week I got the new baseboard painted and got all
the tools ready for the weekend job. Saturday my dad came over and
showed me how to use the complex miter saw that I inherited a while ago
but have basically ignored since I got it. Learning! Anyway, with his
help we got the new section up and it looks like new. Actually, slightly
better than new because the replacement I bought was the same pattern
but a bit thicker and better quality than the baseboards originally in
the room.

Of course, neither of us are professionals at this so replacing like
four feet of baseboards took something like three hours. No cursing or
drinking was involved/required, though. It went smoothly.

After that, my dad and I took a break and played the last few levels of
[*Gears of War 2*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002GN8HU4?tag=mhsvortex) on
co-op, which was fun, while Jenn and my mom went shopping.

That was Saturday.

[![](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/51Piq8g0YBL._SL500_AA300_.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B0041I0N9A?tag=mhsvortex)Sunday,
other than the little chores that need to get done because you're lazy
about them all week, I finally got the opportunity to sit down with my
new Lego set that I got thanks to the tax return. [It's a big 2503-piece
behemoth *Star Wars*
ship.](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B0041I0N9A?tag=mhsvortex) (My favorite
ship, in fact, from the Star Wars universe, which is why I bought it.)
[Phillips Double Chocolate Porter](http://phillipsbeer.com/), my
recently-acquired [*Reboot*
DVDs](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004FZWDSI?tag=mhsvortex), and Legos.
That's a recipe for a nice afternoon, right there.

The Lego set has four separate instruction manuals. I only really got
through the first 2/3 of the first manual in a couple of hours, so it
looks like this will be a long project, which is fine. I like building
Legos. It's like putting together a super cool 3D puzzle. I'm recording
it with our video camera so I can make a time-lapse video of the
construction.

Slightly related: At the same time I bought the new baseboards, I also
bought the crown moulding for [the bathroom that we painted back in
2004](/archive/2004/06/29/painting-the-roses-red.aspx). At the time we
totally intended to put up crown moulding and then somehow it never
happened. We didn't have a saw, we didn't have time, we didn't have
inclination. Well, now that I have the saw, I know how to use it, and
I'm already in that DIY mode, I figure it's time. I've got the boards,
they're painted, they just need to be cut and put up.

