---
layout: post
title: "Setting Up my iPad 2"
date: 2011-12-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1757
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
I won an iPad 2 at a raffle recently (a 16GB wifi-only that I upgraded
to 32GB wifi-only) and finally got around to setting it up this weekend.
So far**I like it, but it's not quite as intuitive** as people (and
marketing) have led me to believe.

Keep in mind that **I come from a Windows/Android world**. I have all
Windows PCs at home (with the exception of [my Synology
NAS](/archive/2010/05/20/moving-to-a-synology-ds1010.aspx), which is
basically a small Linux box). My phone, my wife's phone, and my parents'
phones are all Android. While I've messed around with a Mac a bit, the
majority of my Apple experience is with my 160GB iPod Classic and iTunes
on Windows.

**The first thing I hit was the initial setup.** I know this is supposed
to be the easiest thing in the world, but the things they ask, when
you're not familiar with Apple-speak, are not really clear. Do I want to
set up iCloud? I don't know. Does it cost me anything? Is it going to
mess with any of the other sync services I've got going on to keep my
Windows stuff up to date? If I say no now, will I be able to change it
later or is this one of those questions that will hose you if you don't
get it right the first time? **Nearly every "simple question" asked
became a tiny research project** to figure out exactly what it meant.

The next thing I ran into was the fact that apparently **the USB ports
in my primary computer at home are not powerful enough to charge the
iPad**. It'll sync, but not charge. Not a huge deal, but surprising
since every other USB device I own does just fine with it.

Once I got it all synced up (I'm only syncing books and movies since I
don't anticipate listening to music on it, at least not right now) I
started getting a few apps and setting them up. That's when I discovered
that **I have been utterly spoiled
by**[**Swype**](http://www.swype.com/)**.** I've been using Swype on my
Android phone to enter text very quickly and easily so switching back to
the hunt-and-peck style touch screen keyboard really sucked. (I'm
reading now that you can get Swype for iOS, so I'm going to have to go
do that.)

Another thing I discovered as I was setting things up: **There's no
"back" button.** On Android, I can do something like...

-   Start up an application.
-   Log in and go to the settings panel.
-   Decide I don't want to do settings and hit the "back" key to get
    out.
-   Continue using the application.

On iPad, **you are somewhat at the mercy of the application developer**.
If they don't include a "back" button in the UI, the best you can do is
hit the One Home Button and try starting out from scratch. This was
really a pain as I was looking at [the Epicurious
app](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/epicurious-recipes-shopping/id312101965?mt=8),
where you search for recipes and maybe want to go back to the "home"
screen or go back to see your search results. There seems to be a defect
where the "back" button in the UI sometimes just disappears so you get
stuck. You can't get out. I admit not having that ubiquitous hardware
"back" button actually sort of put me in a little panic mode a couple of
times.

I noticed in the apps is that the **settings seem to be "split" across
in-app settings and global settings**. Some settings you change by going
into the application and managing them from there. Others you have to go
into the "Settings" app to manage. I didn't even discover them in the
"Settings" app until really late in the game because there are so many
settings categories that you have to scroll down to get to the apps
section.

**I had a hell of a time getting wifi sync to work**. You can plug your
iPad in and it is supposed to detect if your computer is running iTunes
and then automatically sync. I checked the option in iTunes to allow
wifi sync, but for some reason it just wasn't working. I ended up
finding a forum where people had to disable and re-enable UPnP on their
router for it to work. I did that and magically things started
functioning. Not sure how non-techies are supposed to figure that out.

Let's just say **the iPad experience is taking some getting used to**.

**One thing I wish it had was a multi-user setup.** I want to use the
iPad and set up GMail, Facebook, Twitter, and all that with my user
accounts. But my wife also wants to use the iPad. Our only real option
right now is to sign in and out of every app every time. That's a pain
in the ass to say the least. I mean, I can see that iPhone is probably
not really a multi-user tool, and iPod could go either way... I even
[faked out iTunes years
ago](/archive/2005/04/10/multi-user-itunes.aspx)... but **an iPad is
like a family device. Sounds pretty multi-user to me.**

But I got it set up, and **so far I'm enjoying it**. I did a Skype
session with my mom and it was really smooth. I bought [*The Monster at
the End of This
Book*](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/the-monster-at-end-this-book...starring/id409467802?mt=8)
and my daughter was sucked in so bad she kept trying to tear the iPad
out of my hands so she could hold it all by herself. I bought iMovie so
I can mess with some video editing (though I still have to figure out
how to get pictures and video *off the iPad* and onto my computer). I
can see that after I get settled into it, I'll have a good time. **It's
just going to take some real getting used to**... and possibly me having
to relinquish some of that control over my environment that I hold dear.

