---
layout: post
title: "My Two Biggest Issues with StackOverflow"
date: 2011-08-17 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1731
tags: [GeekSpeak]
---
I don't really participate on [StackOverflow](http://stackoverflow.com).
Don't get me wrong, I've asked a couple of questions and I've answered a
couple, too, but by and large, I don't go there.

At first I thought it was because of [the Fastest Gun in the West
problem](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/9731/fastest-gun-in-the-west-problem).
I like to take my time and give nice, thorough, sometimes lengthy, but
always *complete* answers. I like that because it serves as a better
reference for the future - it doesn't just answer the question for that
one person, it answers the question *with context* for the future person
asking. And that's still something I take issue with because, contrary
to the current top answer on that problem, I don't believe people read
through every answer to the question. I don't believe there's a "long
game." I don't believe the asker of the question comes back to their
questions to review any new, more complete answers and switch what they
mark as the "official answer." I don't believe people come in and upvote
more complete/correct answers. [We already know people don't
up-or-down-vote
questions](http://blog.stackoverflow.com/2011/05/vote-for-this-question-or-the-kitten-gets-it/).

But I got thinking... and while the Fastest Gun thing does irritate me,
that's not really the reason I don't often visit StackOverflow. The real
reasons, I think, are:

**1. A high percentage of the questions could be answered with a trivial
effort on Google.**

I can't tell you how many questions I see fly past that are so simple,
so "RTFM," that anyone worth their salt couldn't have just hit Google,
typed the question in there, and got the actual documentation - with
samples - to answer the question. So many questions could be answered
with a "[Let Me Google That For You](http://lmgtfy.com/)" (or, if you
prefer, [the Bing equivalent](http://letmebingthatforyou.com/)) link
that... I don't even want to think about it. Cats and dogs living
together - mass hysteria.

The reason this bugs me is that it really throws off the signal-to-noise
ratio of questions on the site. It also, in my opinion, just serves to
inflate the reputation of the Fastest Gun answerers - sit and search for
trivial questions all day, answer, get points. The latter issue of
reputation is sort of a self-solving issue since I'm not too concerned
with reputation or answering trivial questions, but the signal-to-noise
thing really is annoying.

**2. People can not figure out how to ask a question.**

There's [a whole FAQ on
this](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/how-to-ask) even. It's not that
hard, but it kills me that people just can't figure it out. Titles of
questions like "Problem with ASP.NET" or "Migrating to MVC3." Really?
Both of those sound amazingly *totally unlike questions*. Even if you
phrased the titles as questions ("How do I fix a problem with ASP.NET?")
they're still too broad, so you *have* to go in and read them to figure
them out. Once you're in there, it's one of three things:

-   A "[plz send me the
    codez](http://meta.stackoverflow.com/questions/16096/can-we-have-a-plz-send-me-the-codez-flag-for-moderation-editor-attention)"
    question that somehow never gets moderated away, regardless of
    flagging, etc.
-   Something so broad that you should send them an Amazon gift card so
    they can buy some books and read up.
-   Very specific to a problem in their system, and while they describe
    the error that's happening they don't provide any context, code,
    stack trace, or additional data that would possibly be needed to
    assist them.

**I'm not sure how to solve it.**

I sort of thought StackOverflow (and the whole StackExchange thing) was
supposed to be sort of self-moderating, but I feel like maybe they err
on the side of less actual moderation just so they can build content.
That's great from a business model perspective because more content
generally equates to more visitors. On the other hand, quantity is not
the same as quality, and these two issues so drastically reduce the
quality of what's there that it's hard for me to value the site as a
resource. I can't be alone here. This makes me wonder if I'm even the
target audience for StackOverflow. Maybe I'm not. I guess I'll just keep
checking in to see if it gets better.

