---
layout: post
title: "Media Storage"
date: 2011-05-20 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1717
media
---
After doing [that Hanselminutes on network attached storage, Synology,
and Windows Home
Server](/archive/2011/05/06/hanselminutes-265-synology-network-attached-storage-and-windows-home-server.aspx),
I figured I'd also talk about how we store our original media, in case
folks were wondering.

As of this writing, we have [somewhere close to 1000 individual DVD
discs](http://www.invelos.com/dvdcollection.aspx/tillig) in various
forms - single or multi-disc movies, multi-disc TV sets, etc. - and
about as many CDs. Not all of the DVDs are [on my Synology
DS1010+](/archive/2010/05/20/moving-to-a-synology-ds1010.aspx) - I
didn't rip the "special features" discs, and in some cases where I have
multiple editions of the same movie, I only ripped the one we like the
most. That puts 890 DVD images in VIDEO\_TS format on the DS1010+. All
of the music is on the Windows Home Server in iTunes, but not in a
consistent format - some is 256k MP3, some is 320k AAC, some is Apple
Lossless. Lately I prefer Apple Lossless since it doubles as a backup
copy of the music, but I haven't gone through and re-ripped everything.

**With all that media, how do we store it?**

Basically, we gave up on keeping everything in the original cases
because it's just too much volume.

**The CDs are in three**[**Odyssey CD storage
cases**](http://www.sleevetown.com/cd-storage.shtml), each of which
holds 400 discs in thin "DiscKeeper" sleeves. I have them in
alphabetical order by artist, except when it's a compilation or
soundtrack album, in which case it's in there by title. I made small
"dividers" by running some lettered file folders through a paper cutter.

[![Odyssey CD storage cases - click to
enlarge.](http://lh3.googleusercontent.com/_P1NCAbHEm2Q/TdXEOrsfnoI/AAAAAAAACK0/sBi2aJpui7c/s400/2011-05-19-17-55-05-956.jpg)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/kXkA57Mf_mAvYTs_il9eeQ?feat=embedwebsite)

The DiscKeeper sleeves are extremely thin, which is good, because each
box is packed pretty tight.

[![DiscKeeper sleeve with a CD in it - click to
enlarge.](http://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_P1NCAbHEm2Q/TdXEPGFEPaI/AAAAAAAACK4/4SPHxa4tBMs/s400/2011-05-19-17-58-27-617.jpg)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/07v8HgAH_2GJEBgJd73B4g?feat=embedwebsite)

**For the movie DVDs, I'm using MSDN binders**, but they're basically
like [standard Case Logic CD
binders](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004C52I2M?tag=mhsvortex) that have
individual CD-holding pages. I actually use [the Case Logic
pages](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00008KA66?tag=mhsvortex) in the
binders, I just happen to have the MSDN binders available to me.

[![MSDN binders hold DVD movies - click to
enlarge.](http://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_P1NCAbHEm2Q/TdXEPfSb-HI/AAAAAAAACK8/12eHCKDkg_A/s400/2011-05-19-18-05-59-602.jpg)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/uJkERVzN699TFJ-S5M0FGg?feat=embedwebsite)

Each page holds two movies, and each binder is pretty full.

[![DVDs in the MSDN binders - click to
enlarge.](http://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_P1NCAbHEm2Q/TdXEPnKGAcI/AAAAAAAACLA/ZXR4Dmn3fJ8/s400/2011-05-19-18-07-16-594.jpg)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/GvjaOJ2kjY5j4Uif1roiug?feat=embedwebsite)

I keep all of the original inserts to the movie DVDs in a box, and the
cover art is in an expandable envelope, alphabetized by movie title. If
the movie came in a special keep case or printed box, that's stored in a
giant tub in the attic; if it was just one of the standard plastic
clamshell cases, it gets recycled.

The binders are just for movie DVDs. **TV DVD sets are on a set of
bookshelves**, alphabetized by title.

[![TV DVDs on bookshelves - click to
enlarge.](http://lh6.googleusercontent.com/_P1NCAbHEm2Q/TdXEPxIdICI/AAAAAAAACLE/tE1ZsLyHuwI/s400/2011-05-19-18-10-24-510.jpg)](http://picasaweb.google.com/lh/photo/MYC50QdKc5HVw4z6ltlTRg?feat=embedwebsite)

We considered putting the TV DVDs in binders, too, but we liked being
able to look at the discs like a library. Honestly, if I had a ton more
space, I'd like to have all the discs out like a library so you could
browse them, but we don't have that sort of space.

We have very few Blu-ray titles right now, but those are on a different
bookshelf. If we get too many more, I may switch them to binders as
well.

Anyway, with all these discs, you can see how picking through binders to
grab discs to watch or whatever would be sort of a pain, and if you
wanted to browse for a movie, it'd be a similar pain. That's why I ended
up with [my media
center](/archive/2008/09/30/overview-of-my-media-center-solution.aspx) -
so we could, basically, have our own "internal Netflix" with all the
movies we own, on demand right there.

To keep track of our inventory (and to have a list for insurance
purposes), I use [DVD Profiler](http://www.invelos.com/) to track my
video discs and [Collectorz.com Music
Collector](http://www.collectorz.com/music/) to track audio discs. I'll
save details/evaluation on those packages for a different post, but if
you're looking for catalog programs, I recommend both of those.

**UPDATE:** For my Blu-ray discs, [I'm using DiscSox HiDef Pro
sleeves](/archive/2011/08/30/discsox-blu-ray-storage.aspx).

