---
layout: post
title: "Why I Didn't Get Modern Warfare 3"
date: 2011-11-09 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1750
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
Now that [*Call of Duty: Modern Warfare
3*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B00503E8S2?tag=mhsvortex) is out, I've had
some folks asking when I was getting it.

I'm not. At least, not yet.

Why not?

I'm a single-player campaign guy. I like the stories that go along with
those campaigns. I like being able to pick it up in the 17 minutes I
have between getting home from work and the arrival of my wife and
daughter, which indicates it's time to get back to work around the
house.

I also like co-op play. Borderlands was really spectacular for this.
Modern Warfare 2 was OK with its "spec ops" mode, but I really want a
co-op campaign. I like working with my dad, uncle, and friends toward a
common goal. "Spec ops" only being two-person... was limiting.

[![Battlefield
3](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/51oGrxXWEuL._AA300_.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B003O6G5TW?tag=mhsvortex)What
I'm not interested in is what is widely termed "multiplayer" but
basically boils down to "100 different free-for-all modes." Deathmatch
and Team Deathmatch are roughly identical - the only difference is that
in the latter, half the people aren't shooting at you. "Horde mode,"
"Capture the Flag," and other almost-goal-based modes are only tolerable
(to me) for a little while before I get *really bored*. I want a reason
to do what I'm doing, not just endless waves of guys to shoot.

I did get [*Battlefield
3*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B003O6G5TW?tag=mhsvortex), which I was led
to believe by various previews and things would have a decent co-op
mode.

Eh.... not so much. [I did a separate review of that and discussed my
thoughts there](/archive/2011/10/31/battlefield-3.aspx), so I won't go
over that again.

Anyway, I'm starting to feel "done" with the whole military-based
first-person-shooter. They're all starting to feel "same-y" to me. The
single-player campaigns get shorter, the "multiplayer" gets larger, and
co-op gets the short end of the stick. New features get added that are
totally things I'm not interested in (I don't need "battle log"
integration to track my friends' kills) but none of the stuff I would
like (better co-op?) shows up.

At some point down the road, I may pick up *MW3*. I'm not saying I'll
never get it. Right now, though, I'm wading through *Battlefield 3*,
*[Halo: Reach](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002BSA20M?tag=mhsvortex)*, and
*[LA Noire](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002I0HBZW?tag=mhsvortex)*. I
haven't finished the new [*Portal
2*](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002I0J9M0?tag=mhsvortex) co-op levels,
either. And when *Borderlands 2* comes out... I'll definitely be on
that.
