---
layout: post
title: "Why Radio Shack is Failing"
date: 2011-06-15 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1720
tags: [personal]
---
I associate [Radio Shack](http://www.radioshack.com/) with the DIY crowd

- folks who probably know more than average about electronic
componentry, or at least enough to be dangerous, and need someplace to
get raw materials.

Now, people can talk about how [there's retail
competition](http://blogs.forbes.com/lauraheller/2011/04/26/why-radioshack-is-failing-or-attack-of-the-mbas/)
and all that noise, but I think differently. Let me lay the scene:

I just put up some new surround speakers in my game room. The receiver I
have in there doesn't have the fancy
[Audyssey](http://www.audyssey.com/) sound balance microphone
thingamajig on it so I have to balance the sound the old-school way:
either by ear or with a meter. Where do you get a sound meter? Radio
Shack.

I went into the store and the floor space of the place was only about
1000 square feet. The front half of the store was all cell phones and RC
cars and so forth. The back half consisted of three aisles, each of
which had the gadgets and doo-dads I normally associate with Radio
Shack. Being the only customer in the store, I walked up to the desk and
asked the lady there, "Where would I find a sound meter?"

"...Sound meter?"

"Yes, a sound meter... SPL meter... sound pressure level meter... you
know, *something that measures the volume of sound*. A sound meter."

She stood there for a second with a blank look on her face, then looked
around the shop. "Um..." She came out from behind the counter and
started walking down each aisle, in turn, gazing around without actually
looking at anything on the shelves. Then she called to the back for
help.

A guy came out of the back and we went through the whole
"what-is-a-sound-meter" thing again. After that he, too, went down each
aisle, but he went much faster, emulating "purpose." After visiting each
of the three aisles a couple of times, we finally ended in the middle
aisle where, lo and behold, they had not one but *two* models available

- a digital ($50) and an analog ($15).

"What's the difference between these two models?" I asked.

Two blank faces. "Um..."

"You know what? $15. Done." I bought the analog meter (which, by the
way, worked perfectly for my purposes) and that was that.

Thing is, if I was looking for something more technical than a sound
meter, what would have happened? I mean, I don't expect much from
people, but you've only got 1000 square feet of product, and only half
of that is actually anything of substance. You don't know where stuff is
or even what you have?

*That*, my friends, is why Radio Shack is failing.
