---
layout: post
title: "Trane Zoned Heating System"
date: 2011-12-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1758
tags: [home]
---
When we moved into our house one of the things we noticed was that
things didn't quite heat or cool evenly. Certain rooms would be hotter
than others. If you set the thermostat (downstairs) to a specific
temperature, in winter the master bedroom (upstairs) would still be
freezing; in the summer it'd be boiling. We were able to do a little bit
of control using a complex trial-and-error system involving closing down
various heat registers and tweaking dampers in the garage.

Besides that, the system wasn't terribly efficient. When the heat kicked
on, it was full-on. Same for the air conditioning. It's no surprise
since the furnace and A/C units installed were the bottom-end versions
that usually get installed with new houses.

Eventually we got tired of that and last year I had [Sky
Heating](http://www.skyheating.com/) install a brand new system. We got
a [Trane XL20i heat
pump](http://www.trane.com/Residential/Products/Heat-Pumps/XL20i-Heat-Pumps)
and a [Trane XC80
furnace](http://www.trane.com/Residential/Products/Furnaces/XC80-Furnaces).
One of the key reasons I picked those, besides the efficiency, was [the
ComfortLink
system](http://www.trane.com/Residential/products/Communicating-Systems)
they support that allows them to communicate with each other. It allows
the system to know, for example, when the heat pump is at the end of its
efficiency and the furnace needs to kick on - rather than just being
based entirely on outdoor temperature. A bit smarter than the average
system.

After the install, we did notice a much more efficient use of natural
gas and the temperatures evened out a bit... but we still had some
pockets of heat (or cool) and I really wanted to be able to fix that.

Luckily, the ComfortLink system also allows support for the new Trane
zone system that allows you to set up automatic temperature control in
specific areas of your home. Rather than having one temperature for the
"whole house," you can have a different temperature in each zone. (This
thing is so new, Trane doesn't even have a page for it on their web
site.) I had heard it was coming out at some point and was lucky enough
to get in on the ground floor. A couple of weeks ago, Sky Heating
brought one out and installed it.

**It is awesome.**

First, you get a new thermostat that's capable of dealing with the more
complex programming of the zones - [the Trane
XL950](http://www.trane.com/residential/products/thermostatxxl.aspx).
This thing is a monster (in a good way). Wifi-enabled. Touch screen
controls that let you see everything from the current zone
temperatures/schedules to the weather forecast. Stick an SD card with
some photos in the side and it's also a picture frame. Really slick.

![Trane XL950
Thermostat](https://hyqi8g.blu.livefilestore.com/y2pyGUeaCzYT76JNdVffsbKsaOSJLcSbfhFrFI76I1xLbylmjJMr1L4M1xrXS-_X32_bkNGbACA02UnkLq3_jAbAxPpGlHlFeMAaxQQpTuFLdw/20111219xl950.jpg?psid=1)

Your manual dampers in the system then get replaced with electronic
dampers that are wired into a "zone panel" that attaches to the furnace.
The zone panel is responsible for dealing with the dampers and
monitoring air flow.

Rather than tell you... here's a video I made that shows you a bit more:

And another one, a testimonial I did for Sky Heating:

Temperatures in the house are way more consistent now. I can heat or
cool just the rooms I'm in, and to the temperatures they should be. Note
that it does take a week or so to "dial it in" and get it set up just
the way you want it - adjusting the schedule, the temperatures in each
zone, and so on. It's well worth the effort, though, and I highly
recommend it. If you're in the market for something like this, or if you
want your house to feel the way it's supposed to - *comfortable* - look
into it. If you're in the Portland, OR area, [give Sky Heating a
call](http://www.skyheating.com/). You'll be glad you did.

