---
layout: post
title: "The Problem with UltraViolet Digital Copy"
date: 2011-11-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1755
media
---
I have, so far, mostly enjoyed the whole "digital copy" thing movies
provide. It saves me time ripping DVDs and running them through
[Handbrake](http://handbrake.fr/), plus it's "legal."

Which isn't to say l have any moral qualms ripping *discs I own* and
transforming them into formats I require for personal use. **I don't
condone piracy and own a lot of discs.**

I recently picked up [*Harry Potter and theÂ  Deathly Hallows Part
2*](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B001UV4XJ2/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=mhsvortex&linkCode=as2&camp=217145&creative=399373&creativeASIN=B001UV4XJ2)
and it came with this new "UltraViolet Digital Copy" which promises to
be the latest and greatest thing to happen to digital copy.

**It is *The Suck*.**

To get your digital copy, you first have to visit the
[Flixster](http://www.flixster.com/) site, where you get to create a new
account. *Because I needed another set of credentials to remember.*

Next, Flixster asks to link to your [UltraViolet](http://www.uvvu.com/)
account. Don't have one? Sign up now! *That's a second set of new
credentials.* Thank God for [LastPass](https://lastpass.com).

Once you do that, you *finally* get to enter your secret code to get
your digital copy. Entering your code allows you to **stream from their
web site**.

If you want to download the movie for travel, you can do so by
downloading [the Flixster Collections
app](http://www.flixstercollections.com/) to your computer and
downloading through that. **Keep that app around - you can only play the
downloaded copy with it.**

**My use case is getting the movie on my Android phone and my iPod
Classic**, so this doesn't help.

To get it on Android, [there's an app for your phone to
install](https://market.android.com/details?id=net.flixster.android) so
you can download and play there. Great - so the time and bandwidth you
spend downloading to your computer is wasted. Re-download that bad boy
*just for your phone*, baby.

It's the same for iPod or iPhone. Want to watch? [Install the
app](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/movies-by-flixster-rotten/id284235722?mt=8)
and download.

Guess what, though - **iPod Classic doesn't run apps** and doesn't have
network connectivity. There is no way I can see to get this thing into
iTunes so I can sync it onto my iPod. (You let me know when they have a
[160GB](http://www.apple.com/ipodclassic/) iPod Touch and I'll look at
switching.)

**This all boils down to me having a "digital copy" but *still* having
to rip the disc and play the Handbrake game.**

Way to go, Hollywood. You obviously have it *all figured out*.

