---
layout: post
title: "Falling Apart"
date: 2012-03-28 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1777
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I think I'm getting old and starting to fall apart.

**For the last year I've had this Eustachian tube dysfunction** that
causes me to hear myself really loud in my left ear. If I'm talking, all
I hear is me. When it's really bad, I can hear my heartbeat or my
breathing. Walking around would cause a thump-thump-thump sound with
every step.

I ran through five days of prednisone and cipro, then 10 days, with no
luck. After a 25-day-run of prednisone, I ended up **going in on Monday
and getting**[**a tympanostomy
tube**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tympanostomy_tube)**in my ear**.

When they do it, you lay on your side and they drop some anesthetic in
your ear. You lay there for a while letting that soak in, then they pop
your eardrum and put the tube in. The tube itself is about the size of a
pencil lead. It didn't hurt going in, but there is still some occasional
soreness a couple of days later if I yawn really big or bend over such
that the blood rushes to my head.

I still hear myself a little, but in general that whole side of my head
feels clearer. I'm waiting for a few days before I test to see if I can
clear it.

That same day I noticed **the left half of my tongue had gone numb**. I
let it go for a day, but it was still numb, and that freaked me out a
bit, so I called the doctor's office.

When they puncture your eardrum, **some of the anesthetic runs through
your Eustachian tube into other areas of your head**. Apparently some
hit my tongue just right (though I didn't taste anything) and numbed me
up. Today, two days later, I'm better... but that lasts a really long
time. What was most freaky was that I could *feel* things on my tongue,
I just couldn't *taste*, like half of my taste buds had just died. I'm
guessing some nerve got hit or something.

I also **got some new glasses** because Phoenix got ahold of my old ones
and decided to rip the arm off. Since my prescription had expired, I had
to get a new one. Upon getting my new glasses, I noticed **everything
looked like I was looking out a slight fish-eye lens** – straight lines
weren't straight anymore. Looking at, say, a brick wall was really
trippy because the whole thing looked curved. I tried them for a week
and took them back.

The optician said I wasn't adapting to the lens material, so I went from
polycarbonate lenses to some other higher-density material. Same thing –
weird curvy vision. Again, I tried for a week and never adapted, so I
fell back to plastic lenses. (I did inquire as to whether something in
my new prescription might be causing this but I was assured it was the
lens material.)

I'm wearing the plastic lenses right now and still seeing curvy. Keeping
in mind it takes about a week to get my glasses fixed up every time I
take them back, we're going on well over a month now since I first tried
to get new glasses. I'll give these two weeks before taking them back,
but right now I hate these stupid glasses with every fiber of my being.
I hate that nothing looks right. **I really just want my old glasses
with my old prescription even if I wasn't seeing 20/20**.

So **that's three of my five senses that have gone out on me** recently
and I have to say, it's stressing me out.

I won't even get into the pressure cooker work has become, or my lack of
time to do anything at home, or the bathroom caulk I've replaced twice
now because I can't get it to set.

**Basically I'm just tired all the time now.** I'm hoping things pick up
soon because I'm really just falling apart.

