---
layout: post
title: "Convert Any Set of Headphones to Bluetooth/Wireless"
date: 2012-03-13 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1774
tags: [media,music]
---
When I'm at work I like listening to music... but I hate being tethered
to my computer (or iPod dock, or whatever) by the headphone cord. If I
want to slide my chair over to the whiteboard to write something up or
reach over and get something out of my bag, I have one of two choices:
make the cord so long that it gets tangled up on my chair and in my desk
stuff; or take the headphones off to go do whatever it is and put them
back on.

Also, I like my headphones. I have some ear buds, I have some
over-the-ear headphones, and while they're not bajillion-dollar models,
I like them. I don't want Yet Another Pair of Headphones that are
wireless. I want to use my headphones. The ones I already own.

**Before I explain this, let the audiophiles be warned**: This doesn't
yield super-awesome quality. But then again, I'm not sure I'd call
music-over-Bluetooth on any level "super-awesome." Just be aware.

First, get a Bluetooth audio dongle receiver like [the TaoTronics
BTI-005](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B006IJGEGQ?tag=mhsvortex). That's the
one I got and it seems to work pretty well. This runs between $20 and
$30 at the time of this writing. There are a few of these dongles out
there, but on Amazon right now this one is the most popular and is one
of the few that doesn't also require you to plug it in.

The audio receiver allows you to plug your existing headphones in and it
will receive any audio played over Bluetooth through those headphones.
**You just converted your headphones to Bluetooth.**

[![TaoTronics BTI-005 Bluetooth audio dongle
receiver](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/31oUYIlRtwL._SL500_AA300_.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B006IJGEGQ?tag=mhsvortex)

The thing is, **you may or may not be done**.

If your audio source (iPod, etc.) supports Bluetooth, you're probably
done. Pair it up and listen to a song. See how the quality is.

**If the quality is pretty good on your Bluetooth audio source, you're
done.**

**If your audio source doesn't support Bluetooth or if the quality
sucks, you're not done.** I found, for example, that there's some real
weirdness with connecting a Bluetooth audio headset to a Windows 7
computer. \<techspeak\>Windows 7 requires a very specific A2DP audio
profile that not every Bluetooth headset supports. This dongle doesn't
support it. If you [search for "Bluetooth audio quality in Windows
7"](http://www.google.com/search?btnG=1&pws=0&q=Bluetooth+audio+quality+in+Windows+7)
you'll see a ton of people with the same problem on different
headsets/adapters.\</techspeak\>

**In this case, you also need a Bluetooth audio transmitter dongle.** I
bought the [JayBird uSport Bluetooth adapter for 3.5mm
devices](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002PU9U0E?tag=mhsvortex). What this
does is plug into the headset jack on your audio source (computer, iPod,
phone, etc.) and sends the audio signal via Bluetooth. Pair that up with
your receiver dongle and you have both pieces to the puzzle covered â€“
the transmitter and the receiver.

[![JayBird uSport Bluetooth adapter for 3.5mm
devices](http://ecx.images-amazon.com/images/I/3144YNmWG-L._SL500_AA300_.jpg)](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B002PU9U0E?tag=mhsvortex)

Again, there are different transmitters out there, but this one seems
pretty popular and supports this new protocol called "apt-X" that allows
you to potentially get a better audio quality if you also use a receiver
with "apt-X." You can also try the [TaoTronics TT-BA01 adapter for 3.5mm
devices](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004B8GF7Y?tag=mhsvortex), which will
probably work. I wanted the upgrade-ability, so I went with the JayBird.

I'm listening to Pandora through my computer using the BTI-005/JayBird
uSport combo right now and it's decent. Is it audiophile quality? No,
but it's decent. Given that it's compressed music streaming over the
internet and into a mediocre pair of headphones... I don't think the
Bluetooth portion of things is that noticeable. When there's a gap
between songs or a really quiet section of a song, I do hear a low-level
"buzzing" background noise. But for what I'm doing... it's good enough.

