---
layout: post
title: "A Stressful Time Off"
date: 2012-03-12 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1772
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
I had a four-day-weekend this past weekend but, while it should have
been a fairly mild time, it turned out to be a stress-filled pain.

The reason I was off was to help Jenn with some shoulder surgery she was
having on Thursday. I'd need to be around to help while she was laid up
with pain meds and I figured that would mean some food runs while she
slept it off. Phoenix would stay with my parents until Saturday
afternoon so we could get everything settled by weekend time. Get a
little done around the house, take care of Jenn, no big deal, right?

Wednesday night my parents called up and cancelled because my mom's cat,
Xena, started having some health problems... and on Saturday she ended
up having to be put down. She was 16, so I've known her almost half my
life, and she was totally a part of the family. She always wanted to
bite me for some reason, but I think it was because my dad liked to play
with her and rile her up (which she loved) and she wanted to play with
me, too. I'll miss that bad little girl.

Anyway, that left us without a babysitter, so we got Jenn's sister to
cover for us. That worked out well – what a lifesaver! – except for the
part where we weren't planning on having Phoenix return until Saturday
afternoon. Jenn's sister had plans first thing in the morning so Phoenix
came back early.

The early return wouldn't have been a big deal except I promised my
friend John I'd help him that morning to fix his Windows Home Server
that went down during the week. So I had to cancel on him, which I feel
bad about, but Jenn couldn't handle the toddler all doped up and with
only one arm working.

In the meantime, Thursday night I was told my grandpa (my last remaining
grandparent) was in the hospital with a stroke, unable to move his legs.
We found out later that it was something more like an infection of some
nature, not a stroke, but still – hospitalized.

I didn't blog it earlier, but Phoenix grabbed my glasses a couple of
weeks ago while I was in the shower and Jenn took her eyes off her for
like two seconds. I'm not sure how Phoe managed to rip the arm clean off
the glasses, but she did, so I got to get new glasses. I picked them up
on Tuesday... but by Friday they were driving me nuts. Straight lines
were straight in the center of my lenses, but looked all curved the
further away from center they got, sort of like looking through a mild
fisheye lens. I took the glasses in on Friday and the optician said that
indicates my eyes aren't adapting to the lens material well. My old
lenses were plastic, the new ones were polycarbonate. I ordered some new
lenses made of a different material and handed back my glasses. I'll be
on my old/spare glasses for a week and a half or so. Fantastic.

The DST change didn't help anything since Sunday we had to run a
specific errand by 10:30a and we forgot about the time change so it
really had to be done by 9:30a... so there was a lot of "Oh, crap, hurry
up and get ready! Go! Go! Go!"

Sunday also marked my last day of prednisone. I've been fighting some
[Eustachian tube
dysfunction](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmedhealth/PMH0002059/) for
about a year now and the last few months my ENT has been trying to fight
it with a bunch of different drugs... but it's not working, and Sunday
was my last day of my last ditch treatment effort, so I'm gathering it
means I'm going to end up with a tube in my ear like you see on kids
that get ear infections. I know it's not a "big deal," but it still
scares the crap out of me, so there's a low-level simmering going on in
my mind about that. I'll have to make another appointment, probably
later this week or next, and find out.

Honestly, after all that, I really couldn't wait to get back to work.
Not that work isn't stressful (particularly recently), but at least it's
a type of stress I can just bury myself in. Could it be worse? Sure,
things can *always* be worse... but here's hoping this week tapers off a
bit.

