---
layout: post
title: "2012 in Review"
date: 2013-01-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1797
tags: [GeekSpeak,General Ramblings]
---
2012 has come and gone, and it's time to look back at what happened.
Because if I don't, well… my memory isn't quite what it used to be, you
know?

It was a good year both personally and professionally, though I noticed
I blogged a lot less. That happens, I guess. I find I post more of my
little personal updates on [Twitter](http://twitter.com/tillig) or
[Facebook](http://www.facebook.com/tillig), which reduces the noise here
but definitely splits up the content. Maybe that's a good thing. You can
subscribe to the stuff you like, ignore the stuff you don't. (I use
Twitter for more professional stuff whereas Facebook will show you more
pictures of my kid and my cats.)

Professionally, I got promoted to be a Tech Lead at work, which is sort
of like a team leader but without the "people management" part of things
and more focus on product architecture and technology solutions. That's
totally my wheelhouse, so good things there.

[I also became a
co-owner](/archive/2012/10/12/autofac-project-update-ownership-changes-3-0-coming-soon.aspx)
of [the Autofac project](http://autofac.googlecode.com/), which has been
a lot of fun to work on. I started out over there as a contributor for
the multitenant support and started playing a larger role with the
restructuring for the upcoming 3.0 release. It's great to work with
smart folks like those on that project and it's nice to be learning so
much while (hopefully) providing some value to the masses.

Blog-wise, other than the usual "hey, I found this interesting" sorts of
tips and articles…

-   [I showed you how to add a VSIX installer to a DXCore
    plugin.](/archive/2012/02/01/how-to-add-a-vsix-installer-to-a-dxcore-plugin.aspx)
    I've been a CodeRush/Refactor/DXCore fan for a long time and the
    ability to publish plugins for that on the Visual Studio gallery is
    just one more reason they rock. [I even put CR\_Documentor out
    there](/archive/2012/02/16/cr_documentor-3-0-0-0-is-in-the-visual-studio.aspx)
    (first DXCore plugin in the gallery!) so… go get it! (You can [use
    my CodeRush templates to help you write that XML API
    doc](/archive/2012/08/08/use-coderush-templates-to-help-write-xml-api-documentation.aspx),
    too.)
-   [I updated my Subtext database maintenance
    page](/archive/2011/06/17/easier-subtext-2-5-2-0-maintenance.aspx)
    so you can easily enable/disable referral logging. More on this
    later.
-   [I created a "Command Prompt Here"
    generator](http://app.paraesthesia.com/CommandPromptHere/) so you can get any sort
    of context menu command prompt you want.
-   [I showed you how to do a side-by-side render of an MVC partial view
    and its
    source](/archive/2012/05/09/html-demopartial-side-by-side-render-and-code-for-partial.aspx)
    so you can make cool demo sites.
-   [I showed you how to format your config files as part of your
    build](/archive/2012/06/22/format-configuration-files-on-build.aspx)
    so you won't have to deal with it manually. Trust me, this helps a
    ton if you have a lot of developers working in there.
-   We talked about [NDepend 4 and the new CQLinq query
    syntax](/archive/2012/08/10/ndepend-4-cqlinq-ndepend-api-and-beyond.aspx).
    This is another tool I'm a huge fan of. There's only so much FxCop
    and StyleCop can tell you before you need to drill down into your
    code… and this is how you do it.
-   [I published an MSBuild package for Sublime Text
    2](/archive/2012/07/12/sublimemsbuild-msbuild-package-for-sublime-text-2.aspx)
    which includes syntax highlighting, a build system, code snippets,
    autocompletion… If you work with MSBuild in Sublime Text, this is
    for you.

So there's all that. Maybe not high in *quantity*, but I'd like to think
the *quality* is there.

Personally, my year (and most of my free time) has revolved around my
daughter, Phoenix, who is now two years old. This year she went from
walking and a small amount of vocabulary to running around rampantly and
being a total chatterbox. She loves Batman, with [the "Little People"
playset](/archive/2012/03/15/a-typical-play-session-with-my-toddler.aspx)
as well as [a Batman
raincoat](/archive/2012/08/24/my-toddler-party-rock-and-ocd.aspx).
([She's on the ThinkGeek customer action shot page for that raincoat,
too.](http://www.thinkgeek.com/product/edb4/action/218aa89/)) [We took
her to Disneyland and had a great
time](/archive/2012/11/09/disneyland-2012.aspx), though she didn't take
well to the costumed characters. I look forward to taking her again when
she's older and can understand a little more about what's going on.

Every day she surprises me by saying or doing something new and I have
to wonder where she gets all her material. Her latest thing is to
"sneeze" ("ah… ah… AH-CHOO" like in cartoons) and then ask for a tissue
("Daddy, tissue me? I tissue. Please?"). I have no idea where she got
that. This morning I yawned so she pointed to the kitchen and said,
"Daddy, coffee?" Yes, baby, Daddy *does* need some coffee. *You are the
smartest toddler alive.*

In going through some of our stuff, weeding out things we don't use, I
came across these baby sign language videos. We tried that since [we'd
heard a lot of success with
it](http://www.hanselman.com/blog/BabySignLanguage.aspx) and wanted
Phoenix to be able to communicate and not have those "I can't speak so
I'll throw a tantrum" issues. We never could get Phoenix into it,
though. She lost interest in the videos (we tried several kinds from
different places) and just didn't pick up on the signs. Instead, she
pretty much skipped all that and just spoke or used less formal gestures
to indicate what she wanted. We haven't ever really had any issues
figuring out what she's saying and she's never thrown any
communication-related tantrums, so I suppose it all worked out in the
end.

One thing I've sort of surprised myself with is the amount of television
we let her watch. It's not a lot, not like she's just "glued to the
tube," but I thought I'd be one of those parents who would be, like, "NO
TV EVER!" What I find, though, is that she really learns a lot from the
stuff she watches. She knows a ton of animals from *Go, Diego, Go*. She
is starting to get good problem solving skills from *Mickey Mouse
Clubhouse* ("Which tool will solve this problem?"). She's learned a lot
about music and such from *Little Einsteins*. We don't really watch
anything with "no value" - arbitrary cartoons or whatever - but the
educational stuff you see on PBS and Disney Junior has been really
pretty good. She pretends a lot, she likes building with blocks and
playing with those wooden Brio trains… and she knows how to navigate
Netflix and the Disney Junior apps on the iPad to find the different
shows she likes, so that's pretty crazy to watch.

Toward the end of the year I've started getting into tea. I've never
really been much of a tea-drinker in the past, but something clicked
with me and I'm enjoying tea a lot. (Honestly,

In the upcoming year, I am thinking I'd like to move off the Subtext
blog platform. I am a contributor over there, but the momentum behind
the project has been lost and I don't think it's going to come back. I
thought I'd be more into contributing and building on the blog engine
than I ended up being. I met some great folks there and I'm glad I got
involved, but I realize that, as far as a blog platform is concerned…
honestly, at this point I just want it to work and have the software
maintained by someone else. I want to own my content and I want to be
able to tweak things if needed, but for the most part I don't want a
super-young platform and I don't want to worry about whether there's
going to be an update coming. I honestly thought I'd want to tweak a
bunch of stuff on my blog, write plugins, and do a bunch of things, but…
well, not so much. As such, I will probably see what it will take to
move to WordPress. It's been around a long time, it's a sort of de-facto
standard, and it has an actual plugin model (something I'd wanted from
Subtext for years). It also has no shortage of themes to choose from
(something else I'd wanted from Subtext). It won't be a simple process -
I'll need to figure out how to export all the Subtext content in
[WordPress Extended RSS
format](http://ipggi.wordpress.com/2011/03/16/the-wordpress-extended-rss-wxr-exportimport-xml-document-format-decoded-and-explained/),
redirect permalinks, etc. - but I think it'll be worth it.

Beyond that, much as I would like to blog more and better things… I will
have to see. I anticipate I'll still use a lot of social media for the
tiny updates, but hopefully I'll have more interesting problems (and
solutions!) to share with you all as the year progresses.

