---
layout: post
title: "Skyrim, Borderlands 2, BioShock Infinite"
date: 2013-09-23 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1824
tags: [gaming,xbox]
---
I haven't blogged much about games I'm playing recently, so given I'm
"between games" at the moment, I figured I'd talk a bit.

Yesterday, **after about 172 hours, I finished
*[Skyrim](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004HYK956?tag=mhsvortex)* with
1000/1000 achievements**. I probably could have finished sooner, but I
did spend quite a bit of time building up my various skills and running
non-required side missions before getting to the main story. I didn't
get any of the DLC, so the time doesn't include that.

Back in 2006 I played through
*[Oblivion](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000TG72PG?tag=mhsvortex)* with a
buddy of mine and I don't remember it being nearly this big. I do
remember it being more "grindy" – having to jump a lot to build up
stamina, or run everywhere to build up strength. I don't feel like
*Skyrim* was quite like that, but there was a fair amount of tedium. The
alchemy thing – having to make potions – was annoying and tedious. I
think there were too many possible combinations of things, too many
ingredients. Mining ore to refine into metal ingots that could be
fashioned into armor or weapons that you'd then have to improve... yeah,
that was pretty tedious, too. But I think the most tedious thing was
selling stuff. I had so much stuff to sell and no one had enough money
to buy it all. I'd stick it in a chest in my house intending to come
back and sell it when I needed money... but I never needed money. I had so
much money I couldn't spend it all. I really wish you could set up sort
of a... well, like a consignment deal with the local merchants. Deposit
your unwanted stuff in a chest in the shop and over the course of time
they'd just take stuff out and put money in.

That's not to say I didn't have fun. ***Skyrim* was, for me, incredibly
addictive.** Just one more mission, just one more quest... and even though
a lot of it was sort of the same, I didn't really get tired of it. If I
didn't have *[Grand Theft Auto
5](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B0050SYILE?tag=mhsvortex)* to get to next,
I'd go for the DLC on *Skyrim*.

I played a female orc character, though I spent far too much time
getting her to look right considering I play in first person view so I
never actually saw her except in a couple of cut scenes after that. I
think you had to name your character, too, but they never used her name,
or not enough to remember. I think in a couple of ransom notes or
something.

What I liked most about Skyrim was how I actually kind of got to know
and like (or dislike) some of the NPC characters. Cicero, from the Dark
Brotherhood, I hated. I hated him from the first time I met him. He was
annoying and whiny. I sold him off to the Blades. The whole battle
between the Stormcloaks and the Empire was cool, too – the whole world
changes when you decide who to side with and it makes it feel so real
and important.

And you could get married in the game, which was neat. I ended up
marrying Lydia, my housecarl from Whiterun. It didn't make sense to me
to marry anyone else. She was the first "follower" I got; she was always
there and friendly when I went to my house to drop stuff off; and she's
the only real NPC who was totally loyal – she doesn't stab you in the
back or send you on a stupid quest. When I thought about which NPC to
marry, it didn't even occur to me to pick anyone else, like it'd be
in-game "cheating" or something. **I sort of surprised myself when I
felt like that, like it actually mattered somehow, which just speaks to
the depth of the game.**

**Before *Skyrim*, I ran through *[Borderlands
2](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B0050SYK44?tag=mhsvortex)*.** I got the
season pass for that so I've run through all the DLC, too, with the
exception of this latest "Tiny Tina's Assault on Dragon Keep."

I loved the first *Borderlands*, and this second one didn't disappoint.
Bigger, better, faster, stronger. Great characters, great writing. Some
of the Claptrap jokes actually made me laugh out loud and when I think
back I still giggle. ("WHY AREN'T YOU LAUGHING? THAT WAS COMING
F\^&\*ING GOLD!")

I had intended to play through it co-op with my dad and uncle, but with
our various life commitments it was really hard to get together on a
consistent basis. In the end, we all ended up playing through on our
own, teaming up occasionally for harder battles.

**That's the biggest problem I had with this latest *Borderlands*. It
pretty much *assumed* you had a group of four people** to run through
the game with. The harder guys – no way you can beat them on your own.
And even some of the DLC was super hard until you really leveled up and
were a few levels above the bad guys. I never did kill most of the "Blah
the Impossible" or "Blah the Invincible" characters. I got in there with
my dad and uncle, we all died enough times that we lost millions, and we
still couldn't kill these guys. I don't mind a challenge, and I'm a
fairly decent player, but it got pretty ridiculous in there. Watching
YouTube videos and reading forums for strategy, I wondered where people
were getting these full inventories of super-rare weapons, which I have
to assume is because they went through the whole rest of the game *with
the team of people*. **What about the solo Vault Hunters?**

I played through with a couple of different characters, and with one of
my characters I played through twice. After all that, plus the DLC, plus
the ridiculous challenge in places... it burned me out. I will probably
return to it at some point to get through Tiny Tina's DLC, but it'll be
a bit.

**Somewhere in there I played through *[BioShock
Infinite](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B003O6EB70?tag=mhsvortex)*.** I liked
it, as I liked the rest of the BioShock franchise, but I didn't feel all
blown away by the ending the way many folks did. The game play was fun,
the environments very immersive, and I did love the characters. Some of
the "jumping onto skyhook lines" stuff got a little frantic. It was a
neat idea, but seemed to make it a little more complex than it should
have been. I didn't play through the DLC in that, and I may at some
point since they'll be returning to Rapture, but, again, after *GTA5*.

