---
layout: post
title: "2013 Vegas Vacation"
date: 2013-03-02 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1812
tags: [General Ramblings]
---
Every year, maybe every other year, Jenn and I head down to Las Vegas.
There’s always something new to check out and it’s a fun place to visit.

This time we stayed at [ARIA](http://www.arialasvegas.com/) again since
we enjoyed it so much last time. It’s a nice place with lots of great
amenities, and we got a pretty good deal so off we went. (We left
Phoenix with Grandma and Grandpa Illig.)

Normally we kind of do the same stuff – we run ourselves ragged walking
up and down the strip trying to see every hotel and visit every shop.
What we’ve found, though, is that while we tire ourselves out, there’s
not that much changing (it changes fast, but not that fast) so we
haven’t actually seen a lot of new stuff. This time we decided to make a
point to both not walk our feet off *and* see new stuff we’d not seen
before.

The first night we were there we hit the Fremont Street Experience. We
had heard about it a lot, but hadn’t ever made it down there. It was
well worth it – there was a lot to see. We rode the zip lines down the
street, watched like three or four bands perform, and found where they
hid the $5 blackjack tables ([the Golden
Gate](http://goldengatecasino.com/)). We don’t really gamble, but we had
a lot of fun playing. (I think I rode $20 for like an hour. I lost, but
I got my money’s worth.)

[![Travis riding the zip
line](https://lh5.googleusercontent.com/-dvR0z8ttQ4k/UTKO8iY2grI/AAAAAAAAH7M/QnwkAZ36SjM/s400/20130224_193500.jpg)](https://plus.google.com/photos/100275637557074554059/albums/5850895904343810865/5850896036582032050)

Only downside to the Fremont Street thing is how far away it is from the
strip. We took a taxi and it was like $25 each way (not counting tip).
If you plan on checking that out, you either need to figure out public
transportation, rent a car, or actually stay down there.

Another thing we did that I wanted to do since last time we were there
was check out [the Minus 5 ice bar](http://www.minus5experience.com/).
The whole place is a big freezer where the walls are lined with blocks
of ice, the furniture is made of ice, and even the cups you drink out of
are ice. It is, as you can imagine, totally freezing in there. Like, you
get a parka and some gloves along with your admission, but even with
that you start to go numb in your fingers and toes after a while. You
have to set your drink down on a neoprene coaster, too, since the cup
and the table are ice and your cup will fly right off like an air hockey
puck. (We played with that for a while.) There are sculptures and things
made out of ice to check out, and there was a cool little “living room
setting” made out of ice where they had a fireplace (the “fire” was a
decal frozen in the ice) and on the mantel were a bunch of books – all
frozen in a block of ice. It was fun and pretty novel.

[![Jenn and Travis at Minus
5](https://lh6.googleusercontent.com/-hitJVaj_6i8/UTKPUa2ATMI/AAAAAAAAH7c/fQxs8hUqV2o/s400/20130225_223547.jpg)](https://plus.google.com/photos/100275637557074554059/albums/5850895904343810865/5850896446873685186)

We ate at a couple of new places ([the Wicked Spoon
buffet](http://www.cosmopolitanlasvegas.com/taste/restaurant-collection/wicked-spoon.aspx)
is a new favorite), and we visited some of the same stores, but for the
most part, we otherwise just really took it easy. We actually did
accomplish our goal – not walking our feet off and trying a bunch of new
stuff. It was good to get home and sleep in my own bed… but I could
stand to go back in a few months. I always have a good time.

[Here’s the full photo album in case you’re
interested](https://plus.google.com/photos/100275637557074554059/albums/5850895904343810865).
Lots of decorations all over for Chinese New Year.

