---
layout: post
title: "Checking In, Checking Out"
date: 2013-08-19 -0800
comments: true
disqus_identifier: 1823
tags: [personal,blog,gaming]
---
It's been a while since I've checked in on stuff I do in my off-time, so
I figured I'd do a round-up entry to catch up.

[Since Phoenix was
born](/archive/2010/12/01/phoenix-aeralynn-illig.aspx) it's been harder
to get so-called "free time" to do much. Probably more accurately put:
There are a lot of things I like to do, and I have a lot of time to do
things if I can involve my toddler, but most of the stuff I want to do
isn't toddler-friendly so I don't get to do it. I mean, toddlers plus RC
helicopters equals disaster.

Jenn's been helping out a bit trying to get me a bit more time to do
stuff on my own. She'll take Phoe to the zoo or something so I'll get a
chance to pick up some of the activities I used to enjoy but don't get
to as much anymore. What am I up to?

**I'm switching up my comic book subscriptions**. I've had a comic box
at [Things From Another World](http://www.tfaw.com) for many years and
for most of those years I've subscribed to the same stuff. I've finally
started getting caught up on my comic reading ("That 2011 Annual story
was great!") and some of the titles I've been subscribing to seem to
have jumped the shark, so I've been trimming up the list. I've canceled
*Witchblade*, *The Darkness*, and all of my *Buffy the Vampire Slayer*
titles. I've been in on those from the beginning, but the stories are
feeling played out and stale, and at $3 – $5 a pop, I can find other
titles. I'm trying out a couple of new ones like *Ten Grand*, and I'm
keeping *Daredevil*, *Powers*, and the myriad *Grimm Fairy Tales*
titles.

**I'm getting back into RC helicopters.** A few years back I bought the
original Blade CX coaxial helicopter from the local hobby shop to start
getting into flying. It's been fun, but I'm not very good at it, and it
requires a lot of space with zero wind. Here and there I've been
upgrading it, adding better blades and so on, but I've not really gotten
it dialed in. I recently picked up a [Blade
MSR](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B009WQFKMQ?tag=mhsvortex) and a [Spektrum
DX6i controller](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004M13YI8?tag=mhsvortex) and
I'm starting to get back into it. The MSR is much smaller so it's easier
to fly indoors, though I still think I need to tweak some of the
settings. I've also upgraded my Blade CX with a new receiver so I can
control both helicopters from the one transmitter. All that, plus I got
[this monster battery
charger](http://www.hobbyking.com/hobbyking/store/__19676__HobbyKing_4B6_Balance_Charger_Plus_Accessories_200W_USA_Warehouse_.html)
so I don't have the problems getting my batteries properly
balanced/charged/stored and I'm good to go.

**I'm having fun with frisbee golf.** The weather has been really nice
this summer so my team at work went to a local course and I played
frisbee golf for the first time. I'm not very good, but it's fun, so
I've been back a few times since. I picked up [a starter kit of
discs](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B000Q838XW?tag=mhsvortex) for myself and
one for Jenn. This is something Phoenix can participate in, too – we
give her a disc and she throws it all over. (She also runs and fetches
your discs after you throw them so you have to watch where they land
because they're not going to stay there long.)

**I'm burning hours playing *Skyrim*.** I got
*[Skyrim](http://www.amazon.com/dp/B004HYK956?tag=mhsvortex)* for
Christmas and started playing it a couple months back. That's a
time-sink, right there. It's kind of relaxing and compelling at the same
time. There's just enough tedium to take my mind off the troubles of the
day and enough missions to run that there's always something to do.

**I'm taking online bartending courses.** I picked up a membership to
[Bartending College Online](http://www.bartendingcollegeonline.com/)
through Groupon a while ago and I've had fun watching the videos and
learning the various techniques and recipes. I'm not going to quit and
go be a bartender, but it's fun to learn something new that doesn't have
to do with computers.

**I haven't gotten back into electronics with my Snap Circuits yet**,
but I hope to do that, too. Once it turns to Autumn and the weather goes
to crap, frisbee golf will be out and I'll see about getting into the
electronics again. I really enjoy working with them, but about halfway
through the exercises that come with the set I realized I don't have a
good grasp of the fundamentals, so I took a pause on it to read a book
on the math and basics behind *why* the components behave the way they
do and that's where I stalled out. It's not a book you want to read when
you're sleepy, but I think it's important to understand the basics so I
can go beyond what the pre-printed exercises show and maybe make
electronic inventions of my own.

**I'm trying to migrate my blog to WordPress.** Subtext was fun while it
lasted, but development on it has pretty much ended and I'd like to be
on a supported platform. I honestly thought I'd use my blog as more of a
hobby, someplace to try out new code and ideas, but there's really not
any plugin mechanism in Subtext and, while that was the plan, it never
came to fruition. Rather than move to another smaller platform and go
through the growing pains again (and possible abandonment of the
platform) I'm trying to get into WP. That means I have to figure out how
to export my content in WP format, though, which isn't going to be easy.

**I'm trying to get my images out of ImageShack.** I had a paid account
with ImageShack for a year or two to host my images and reduce bandwidth
consumption on my hosting provider, but ImageShack randomly deletes or
loses images all the time. Like, constantly. Links break, the images
disappear... today I found that they've "lost" my blog skin images, so my
blog doesn't render right. I'm going to switch to a
simpler/lighter-weight skin until I can get that fixed (probably until I
move to WordPress – it was time for a change anyway).
